Meeting Title: Barnaby Dorfman and Partnership for the Americas (PFA) Mark Lopes via Mike Putnam and Barnaby Dorfman
Date: Dec 3
Meeting participants: Mark, Bdorfman, Geoffrey, J, Mputnam, Rescobar


Transcript:
 
Them: Hello? How are you, sir? Good. Nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. I think Mark and Greg Jeffrey, you are gonna be here in a little bit. So Well, I was I was assuming that Mark was in Seattle because it looks foggy behind him. It does look foggy. That's that's my background. It is that time of year. Natasha, where are you based?  
Me: Hi. I'm in Argentina. Now at the airport. Trying to go back home. I have, like, five  
Them: Buenos Aires, ¿o  
Me: yeah. I'm from Cordoba, but now I'm in Buenos Aires. And my ride was rescheduled like, four times this week.  
Them: I know Barnaby spent a lot of time in in Argentina. So Yeah. Me encanta. Buenos Aires es un ciudad superlinda. Tengo amigos argentinos.  
Me: When was the last time that you paid?  
Them: For the mine pointed that out, and I was like, well, maybe we should go. It sort of started out as a half joke, and then families, went down. Saw her, had an amazing time. I don't know if you caught the start of that, Mark. Barnaby's telling the story Taylor Taylor Swift and Brandon Cyrus. Oh, amazing. Yeah. It was fun. It was really fun. It was also you know, we were we were there just at the end of kind of the the worst of the hyperinflation, but so prices were very good for us. I know. Not great for people there, but it was very inexpensive. It's gotten more expensive, I think, with the exchange rate. But Where where did you get your flu in Spanish, Bernabee? I so I went to it's been half of undergrad in Spain and Mexico. Oh, cool. And I had lived with a family in Mexico for summer in high school and just and and I met my ex wife in Spain who she's Italian from Italy, but she didn't speak English, and I didn't speak Italian when we met. And so Spanish was our common language for ten years. So Well, maybe I could, start off since I Since early on, thank you, Mark, for inviting me. Mark and I know each other. We were roommates at the Kennedy School, and we both worked at the Center International Development and in the IT group there, which Jeffrey led. That's how we know Jeffrey way back in the day. And, you know, since then, I've been very involved in software, including a lot of international software. I started mobile for TripAdvisor, which, we grew from zero to 20,000,000 monthly users in a year, and lots more users since then in many languages. Recently, I worked, with a telehealth company that, saw a lot of growth, helped a lot of people in the pandemic. Lately, I've been digging deep on AI. And Barnaby, know because I was an intern in prod product management at Amazon back in 2002, if you can believe that. Way back in the day as a as a we both went to Dartmouth, for business school. He was he was great there. And after business school, I started a company called Xear. Barnaby was an investor and also a great adviser. So we've been involved in many ways, since then. So lots of different connections. But I'm passionate about development and the work PFA is doing, and I think private equity can be a powerful tool for that. So Barnaby, do you wanna introduce yourself, and then we can go to PFA? Sure. Yeah. So, I guess, starting with Amazon. Well, I didn't check for about thirty years. I was at a small start up, actually, based in Cambridge, the Amazon acquired in '99. Moved to Seattle as part of that. Was head of product for the first version of the Amazon marketplace, then it's been about seven years at Amazon total. Also worked at IMDB, the Internet of database. And and then my last role was in what we call the algorithm script. It would be called the AI group today. Worked on things like core search recommendations, and the number and a number of other things. Left sort of wandered in startup land for a few years. And the last dozen or so years was CTO of a couple of high growth, b to b SaaS companies. One was called or it's called PayScale. It was part of growing that from about 8,000,000 in ARR to over a 100,000,000 through a couple of private equity transactions Warburg PINC has acquired us, held us for five years, sold us to, for instance, Partners. Then I was at another company called Go One, which actually an Australia based, elearning for employees platform. Joined that at the very beginning of the pandemic, and then everything moved online. So we went from like, you know, single digit millions again to over a 100,000,000, but even faster in less than two years.  
Me: Estoy hablando por televisión.  
Them: Grew a team of product and engineering from about 50 to 200. Spread around the world. So the global role I left that a couple years ago. Thought I was gonna maybe work less. Took my family to Costa Rica for, six months. My daughter went to school there, and but I got bored on the beach within two weeks. And so that started a couple of different, sort of interim fractional CTO roles and decided I liked that, but didn't like kind of being a a a lone lone wolf, so to speak, and having to find the next thing and the next And so I joined, a small PE firm men main sale partners, We have about $44,000,000,000 under management And the investment thesis is it's part of what sort of, I think, brought us here today. Because I think this is an extensible investment thesis to Latin America. But, basically, we we buy, small founder led bootstrapped b to b SaaS companies, sort of in the 5 to 10,000,000 ARR reads and grow them to 25 and 50,000,000 and then sell them typically to another PE firm And the a lot of what we invest in are companies that are essentially helping automate blue collar industries. Taking a lot of processes that are, like, clipboard and post it note run and turning them into  
Me: Gracias.  
Them: sort of technology run businesses. As an example, I'm on the board of a company called Skimmer, which, is all the software you need to run a pool clean service. And so, you know, not a not a high-tech industry by any means, But, you know, we've been we found a lot of niches kind of that that'll that are not very competitive. It's not you know, a lot of people wake up in the morning thinking they wanna do that. Some of the other categories, a fair amount of kind of, like, sort of medical. So we, we have a company called Cairo HD. It's everything you need to run a chiropractic practice, another one for veterinary practices, also kind of in machine shops. So, woodworking, milk doing kind of holding, which is a very highly specialized, very specific thing. Turns out a much bigger market than I would have thought, and another one, probably one of our best ones, is everything you need to run a porta potty sort of portable, you know, restroom service. Yep. And and we've expanded it from sort of, you know, the the individual porta potties to pumping out septic systems, pumping out, grease traps in restaurants, and now dumpsters. For for the the dry waste. Anyway, I just I think it's a a an interesting model. And then, you know, I I spend time in Latin America most years. I I go either for a vacation or, you know, to extended periods for for variety of reasons. I had a the company go on, I had a team about 60 people spread around Latin America as contractors. And, you know, I just feel like the the opportunity to potentially either run the same playbook, which is acquiring similar companies, modernizing them, and helping them scale. Or basically looking at companies that exist in The US that don't exist in Latin America that could. It's so much easier to build applications now, you know, with AI And and then the other, I think, reality that excites me is the infrastructure is there. Right? Every every has a cell phone now. You know, this is smartphone that is connected to a network, and you know, if you think about kinda like the epiphany that Uber had, which is hey. We you know, everybody has these devices, Taxi drivers have, you know, have them Limo drivers have them. Also individuals with cars have them, and people who need rides have them, and we can just create a network and connect it to It just seems like, you know, you just think about all the industries, that are completely manual in Latin America. And that, you know, we we can look at a a successful model in The US and replicate it pretty easily. So that that's what I that was the idea I shared with my and how we wound up here. Mark, do you wanna Great. Great to meet you, Barnaby, and and anyone that Mike says Twenty years in government doing sort of foreign policy, Latin America bouncing around house senate political appointments, and I was the US representative to the inter American Development Bank where I currently work part time consult by time while I'm launching this partnership for The Americas. So it's this up? Mike's on the board on. It's a five zero one c three where we bring together public private philanthropy and investors in trying to grow Latin America America essentially. And and and so sector agnostic and sort of path agnostic, but we wanna do big scaled stuff and sort of be that kind of white glove connector, but also do technical work to help run, you know, proposals and then connect the dots with folks across, you know, mostly Colombia through Mexico and maybe The Dominican Republic as a start and then expanding as as we need to. That whole model was based on a thing called the partnership for Central America, which was started under vice president Harris. Like, three and a half years ago. And we're actually going to absorb them on January 1 as they kind of want to expand their mandate. We have a larger job They were only working El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras. That's too small market for sort of the big investors. And so we wanna do a a broader regional play, and we wanna, frankly, kind of run it and design it in the way that we think is best. I was the president and COO that organization. So we're we're fortunate enough to get a tiny bit of money from them and some staff and we'll kinda take over them and and and then try to fundraise and build out the new organization with Jonathan and Jeffrey, and and it Natasha. We've also got a a proposal in with a development bank in the region to do some work on on the entrepreneurial ecosystems in the smaller markets. So they're trying to start a fund of funds at the CAF, like a maybe $200,000,000 fund but they it's just that they don't want it all to go to Mexico and Brazil, the big two markets that most of the money is going to. And so they want sort of pathways and strategies to kind of bring into the Bolivia 's Paraguay's, Costa Ricas of the world. I did spend I spent two, six years at start ups both SaaS, b to b, and b to g around the nine one one space. So it was a protect public sector dimension that was in New York. And I still live in New York and I bounced back and forth, from Washington DC. And so I'll hand it over to, to Jeffrey. Thanks. I Barnaby. Did you work with Stig Leslie back in the day? I did. Steve Steve was yeah. Steve was the the founder and CEO of exchange.com. I was the head of I'm general manager of of the Blue Fund. Okay. Because I I I need to stick back before the, Amazon acquisition. And your description of Cambridge startup being bought by Amazon. I was a I'm a friend of Sherry Stig's wife. She was a classmate at the Kennedy School. Okay. Okay. So yeah. So I I I I let's see. I I started my career in Spain. Living I lived in Spain for three years late eighties, early nineties, and then it was in Mexico City. Working for the World Bank in Mexico and Central America on big infrastructure projects. I spent twenty five years in academia, at the Kennedy School. Working as a researcher for Jeff Sachs, work working on tech tech issues, which is when I met Mike and Mark. And then I ran the main research international affairs research institute at Brown for a number of years and taught social entrepreneurship. And then I shifted gears and became a fundraiser. I led it Latin America fundraising. For Brown and then for the Kennedy School where I also ran international fundraising. So I spent a lot of years, developing a high net worth network around the world, left Harvard about three and a half years ago to to try and capitalize on all my wisdom and networks and all those sorts of things and reconnect with Mark a couple years ago and started working on PFA and and, you know, so she'll share the passion for Latin America and trying to to to do basically, in this latter phase of life or mid phase of life, whatever phase of life does it. Spend the rest of my years doing cool stuff that's impactful. So this is a good group for that. Nice. Awesome. I can go. Okay. I Jonathan Nelson. My parents missionaries in Central America for twenty years. So for three, I was the only white kid at the end of hours of dirt road in a tiny little village in Honduras. And then after that, we moved to a little country in the seventies and eighties called Costa Rica. I thought it was normal to ride the sea turtles when you went to the national parks because the park rangers always wanted a little Polaroid selfie with a little gringo kid. And so came back to The States, did a stint in clinical health care for a number of years, injured my back, and went back to school for software engineering. And so you gotta move to Silicon Valley and figure out what this whole thing about selling ones and zeros is. And I was like, this is brilliant. I know how to copy and paste. I I can sell an app for a dollar, copy and paste 1,000,000 times. I can make a million dollars. And so, came to The Valley about eighteen years ago. Was driving my wife crazy talking about startups all the time as I was career changing. She kicked me out of the house when they had a month to go to a bar and talk with other people about startups. And so she helped me start this event called hackers and founders. And in 2008, 2009, it went viral. Pre COVID, we'd had events on and off in about 200 cities globally. Couple 100,000 tech entrepreneurs had attended our event And after the first four to 5,000 conversations with what a pain in the asset is to raise capital, especially outside of Silicon Valley, I was like, there's a bug here. Like, why are people asking me how to raise money? Like, I'm a nobody. And so I started kinda pulling on that thread, kind of reverse engineering, how venture funding worked and how fund the funds worked. We did some advocacy work on immigration because I got tired of seeing my friends getting deported after raising a million bucks during the Obama administration. And that ended up started working with the OSTP on founder Visa. Actually, one of the first founders that we saw get deported was out of start at Chile. They had just finished erasing a series a. He had 20 employees. I think he went to Vancouver for vacation and border, the border control agent wouldn't let him back into the country because he was the the wrong color he had a back pack of hoodie and, you know, said that I'm a CEO, bro. And, yeah, that didn't fly. And so one thing led to another. I did a stint at the SEC and as an adviser on capital looking at why Silicon Valley gets so much capital and why so little venture capital gets invested in the rest of the country, I. The rest of the world. The result of that study was we think that I thought it was liquidity. A lot easier to get your company acquired if you're based in Silicon Valley. Especially when 85 to 90% of the world's tech MNA happens here. And so after that study, I decided to work on how do we actually improve liquidity. I did an accelerator in San Jose. We had a second office in Guadalajara, Mexico. It was really hard to convince people of Mexico. Fifteen years ago that, you know, hey. Fun Mike start up, and then Google's gonna acquire me. Me. And the answer was, like, When is gonna come to Guadalajara to buy anything? And it's like, okay. Yeah. But then then I'll IPO. And it's like, how are we gonna get to a $100,000,000 in Latin America to be able to get acquired to IPOs of Nasdaq? We'll have a meeting with you. And I was like, it's kind of illogical for you to, like, invest down in Latin America you don't have any exits. So how do we fix this exit thing? So I spent the last seven or eight years there looking at different stock exchange models around the world. Worked with London Stock Exchange, seeing if we can build a pipeline helping company from LatAm, list in London. It's kind of a stepping stone to The US. Finishing up investment banking license, getting that set up, and we have a couple of companies interested in doing some m and a. Across Latin America. We're looking at secondaries. Couple of execs at Rafi just asked us for some help in you know, getting liquid on some of their stock And so that's that's kind of us, and we're trying to figure out how to improve liquidity in Latin America. I also based in Silicon Valley, I wouldn't, you know, sure get a US deal as well. But and then Mark and I, you know, have commiserated how to, you know, how do we change the world and how do we improve Latin America and how do we go from doing, you know, kind of little precious development projects and to just grow business in the region. And you know, been joining that trip so far and and looking forward to seeing what other trouble we can get into down the road.  
Me: Well, my background is in international relations. When I started my final research. I discovered that one of the top things in the agenda Argentina was teledetection, satelital collaboration between the global cell. That's why they started researching about technology, and then I did a master in science and technology. But I didn't finish it because I'm kind of lazy for doing more tests. But I love the the topic. Then I did a specialization in corporate finance and diplomats in open innovation and like that. And I work for five years, as a platform manager and head of operations of Cali Ventures, but it's a venture capital in early stage in The Americas, like, they have thesis in LatAm, and in the second in the second fan, also in The US. And with a special test in artificial intelligence in the second instrument. I started there as an analyst, for one and a half year doing the, you know, the first analysis before the investment committee. But then I discovered that my passion was to build the ecosystem and to strengthen partnerships For example, one of our strategical partners were Amazon Web Services, Like, are my best friends in the ecosystem. We did a lot of event And it's a lot of opportunities for the startups week manage 27 start ups in The Americas. And then I met Jonathan like, in a call exploring opportunities, and then that was one year ago. And also, I work with governments in different open innovation programs and exploring, especially with a partner in deep tech. And science, basic science. That's why I'm here. I'm doing well. Now the COO of HF Capital, I'm learning a lot and enjoying the trip.  
Them: Cool. Well, this is quite a group. Mike. We'd figure we'd overwhelm you with with with bodies, no, it's it's a great group. Like, you know, we're we're as you hear, we're just trying to figure out And and, like, I think your background's super interesting. I mean, I think people who've you know, got some so some of the things we do is convene some of the Latin American you know, high net worth folks in in in in certain small environments or some of the bigger ones you may have gone to the flea conference, and there's, like, various, you know, conferences all over the region. You know? But there's a lot of money in certain countries. We know all the Central Americans and the South Americans well. A lot of times, they're investing externally because they they say, look. I've already got, you know, my investments. My whole company is here. I wanna go to The US. You know? And we're trying to figure out, you know, how do we create channels to have that investment happen there? How do we bring in investment from, you know, LatAm curious kind of investors. Right? But, you know, kind of helping to benchmark the perceived risk versus actual risk and then define the exit paths as Jonathan said. So this is very much like the space that we wanna sit in and dominate and and broaden the network and figure out and and and, and serve. So, yeah, we'd welcome kind of you know, what work would be helpful You know, curious about, like, a little bit more, you know, maybe what are your next steps? What would you what do you wanna do? And how can we stay in touch? But this is all just, you know, friends through Mike and and and what's what's useful, and we're happy to kinda loop you in to various things we're coming out of doing in the next year and then see if there's a a a way for you to participate. Yeah. I I mean, my thinking on this is not very structured, to be honest. But you know, I to clarify, the role that I have with, MaineSale is I'm I work with four companies. I'm an independent contractor. It's not full time. But I also was brought on to to basically lead AI strategy for the firm. And, because I've been did it all the way back at Amazon ever since. And we've come one eighty in terms of our investment in in leaning into AI. I I just think there's I think what's happened with AI is is a bigger step function than the web itself. And and I think that the potential again, in in LatAm to have an impact in many, many different ways is practically infinite, and so there's obviously this issue of focus. I also have a a couple of good friends. They they have a company called Moonshot, and they were contractors who worked for me back when I was at this company Go One. They're both from they're Venezuelan diaspora. They live in Portugal and Spain. Well, one is moving from Chile to Spain. And one has a PhD in AI, They have a network of contractors throughout Latin America, that they use to do contract work, but they've also done have some of their own startups. They're working actually on a startup that, I'm an adviser to based here in The US. I think they're they have great execution ability. They don't have the social personal networks to access capital. You know, I think they're they're they're an execution arm that I could also bring into the mix. I guess I just you know, I'm always a fan of experimentation and trying things. I actually started my career in the department of commerce at International business was my undergraduate degree. I spent two and a half, three years, in the commerce department in in The US and foreign commercial service, which is the called commercial service now, actually. But the domestic arm of all the commercials officers in the embassies or consulates around the world, I learned the government wasn't the right place for me, and big big organizations are not the place for me. You know? And when I started at Amazon, it was hundreds of people. And I left it. It was many tens of thousands. But I guess, you know, the in talking with Mike, I just I feel like I've learned so much. I also learned that, like, I wish I you know, the model I I spent a lot of time in in VC portfolios. The company that we were talking about earlier that Amazon acquired was VC backed, and it was a great exit. I've had a few other exits, but I've also had some failures. And and kind of I feel like I've learned that the model of sort of planning for, you know, one or two to to hit and you know, sort of eight to fail. A sound investment thesis, but it sucks if you're in one of the eight to fail, or nine fail. And the thing I've liked about PE is you know, we basically have close to zero failures. You know, not everything is a triple or or higher. You know, but most of them are. And the model also really being very supportive and know, sometimes it's prescriptive. Sometimes it's it's, supportive. From I'm with, and the model I like is supportive. But I just I think again, the the there's so much opportunity, and I can see maybe maybe trying to find a project or build something somewhere that solves some practical problem I've given the example to Mike and a few people who have, like, know, every time I go, my parents live in most of the year in Puerto Ayarte. And, you know, they still have the trucks driving around with the speaker on this this roof, you know, you know, and, like, but everybody has a cell phone, and they could be saying, boom. I need gas, and location is identified, and payments could be handled, and, like, know, that's a super inefficient market. So, you know, I'd be interested in continuing to talk and maybe talk about different organizational structures or so, you know, what I bring is the ability to go from concept to reality with software. Jonathan, sounds like you've done that quite a bit. And I've you know, I think the other thing is the pattern recognition that's kicked in pretty hard for me in terms of now working across 25 portfolio companies and helping them figure out how to adopt AI. The four that I'm on the board about and got deep with, I just I think there's so much opportunity and would love to be part of that in some in some structure, and I don't I'm also a little you know, I'm a little later in my career, so I'm probably more in doing cool stuff and making the world a better place than you know, purely financially motivated. So if I if I could build on that, R and B, like, most of my career has been building software, and I'm spending a lot of time in AI right now. And I'm just seeing how powerful a multiplier AI is. It lets you move so much faster. It is crazy. Right? Like, 10 times faster probably. And with the same resource. And know, we've all seen that there's a huge opportunity to leapfrog. Right? So if you're building SaaS platforms with AI that are mobile first, you can leapfrog everybody and build it. So it is international from day one, serves all of Latin America, I think there's a really big opportunity there that that you can build quite fast in an extremely capital efficient way. Right? You know, I've I've built two applications in the last week that are useful for all founders and our instantly global, and I built them alone. Took three hours, and it's live. Right? And that's that's different than the world was years ago. Meaningfully different. And I think, you know, this is literally pre to the choir about the development and human upside to bring that innovation and development and employment and everything else into Latin America. So I think it's a really interesting idea. Yeah. One of the things that did it for me was my brothers are missionaries, and in Latin America and a brother in Guadalajara. And I just went down to go and visit them, and I was, you know, living in San Jose trying to do this startup thing. Building kind of the startup community. Went to Guadalajara, and my brother took me to a Starbucks. And everybody had little netbooks. And I'm looking at them, I'm like, am I in no. This is Mexico. Like, is not the LatAm that I grew up in. And it was mind boggling to me that so many and I was like, oh my gosh. They now have access You can buy a netbook for a couple hundred buys. You have Internet connection. You can access a global market. Couple months after that, I was asked to go down to Uruguay to actually speak at a a tech conference in Montevideo, and I was in introduced to this video game company. And they had a little tower defense game. They started off as a flash game, and then they ended up going on the mobile, and it was doing okay on mobile. And the day that they flipped on in app purchases on their mobile game, they made $250,000. And that changes you know, an economy. Because, you know, you can have that kind of leverage. And when we started our accelerator in Guadalajara, we started seeing a lot of insanely hungry, insanely talented young people, but there's this kind of structural ceiling that ends up happening where a lot of the VCs and the thumb are trying to tropicalize the model, where you know, we're do what Silicon Valley does. We make events of seed investments, pre seed investments bunch of seed investments. Every now and then, you know, we've had, what, 36 unicorns break out. But there's a profound lack of growth capital. Like, if you want a series a, there's maybe a dozen funds that can write that check. And if you want a series b, there's two funds. There's general Atlantic and then there's Kazakh. You might be able to convince process out of South Africa to rate you a check. And so there's this kind of innate ceiling in Spanish speaking Latin America it's really hard for companies to break through and the founders that have been broken through tend to have deep networks, banking networks in The United States where they can essentially tap those networks to actually raise capital. And so just these entrepreneurs they just know how to sell And they sell and they sell and they sell and they sell. And you know, where's the exit? They build great companies. Great employees, an amazing amount of hunger. But this liquidity and exit piece Also, to your you know, to your point in terms of AI, I invested in an AI company in Mexico. They, just do some pretty advanced machine learning, not losing a language model or neural network, but they're just using machine learning to use cameras, security cameras to identify things. And, you know, they talked to one of the banks says, you know what? We lose about $102,100,000,000 dollars a year. We think it's our teller's pocketing the cash. Can you guys help us recognize that? And so they're like, yeah. And within six months, they had a paid pilot, and they're actually working for one of the larger banks in Mexico, you know, identifying, you know, petty theft out of cash boxes tellers. And then another guy had, you know, a pharmacy chain, and you know, I have 10,000 pharmacies, and I spend $2,000,000 a month. Doing secret shoppers to find out if the cashier is gonna upsell. My clients. And so within a couple of months, they had a paid pilot you know, doing that. But the founder, you know, some Argentina, hardworking guy. His mom was, you know, basically helped run a bus stop and he grew up selling Coca Cola on the button, you know, chips on the bus, and he worked his tail off to get through university. And know, he's gonna have a natural ceiling to his company because he doesn't have The US networks to kind of grow his grow his company. But he just sells and sells and sells And I've been surprised at how quickly the enterprise his enterprise happened. Like, the enterprise sales cycle in The US is about eighteen months. His is about three to six. Wow. I wouldn't I that's that's shocking. I would just think just bureaucracy, etcetera, I would have expected it to be the inverse. But that's great to hear. Yeah. No. Like, magic wand, Barnaby, this Latin America thing works out for you. What is that what does that look like? Know, in an ideal scenario for you in five or ten years? Yeah. I've been super impressed with Mainsale, the team, the the team I mean, there are about 80 people in the company. It was the firm number is 60 when I joined a year ago. Super high integrity, hardworking, smart, and fun. Like, get together the whole company gets together four times a year, and do fun things. Typically, we to Mexico once I mean, it's all domestic. There's no and I wouldn't I wouldn't wanna compete with them or do anything. Directly competitive, but because they're they're not really interested in international. But I think one variant, I don't know that I I don't have crystallized view. But if there were something like a main sale that existed in Latin America, you know, I think that would be really cool or or other variants. I I think I don't know that it not cookie cutter because I think it does need to be different. And I also I also think AI is gonna is everything. But I think, you know, at at the at the end of the day, if I could point to, you know, having helped some number of hundreds of entrepreneurs go from, you know, either not not having a company to having them successful or one that's sort of successful but limited in some of the ways you described to achieving their their dreams. And then I work with a lot of people who've had life changing financial outcomes multigeneration changing outcomes, and are still kind of engaged and going to the next level. But I'd, you know, I'd love to see that. And then I I there's probably that side and then the others I'd love to be able to point to software technology solutions that have made life better for the average person in some dimension. You know? And I love I mean, Warward Pincus, I had this sort of epiphany. I was at one of their CXO events, and it was like, if all the companies that are represented here disappeared tomorrow, The US economy would be crippled. Right? And there are mostly companies nobody ever heard of. Because there's just these little slices of economies that that are powered by a technology or a solution that nobody really knows about. Whether it's a piece of payment processing or a piece of whatever it is, the the energy system or the food system or the transportation system, take your pick. And so, you know, I would love to I I I love traveling, so I'd love to be able to kind of experience sort of doing that throughout Latin America. It's it's something that you know, I haven't done as much of in my career as I would have liked, to date. And I've, like, you know, I would invite more of that. So that's that's for me. I like money too. I'd like to make money, but that's cool. Last off list. Us. But I can make more money doing this stuff here probably. Maybe not. I don't know. Who knows? Let me give you a couple examples of, you know, things we've looked at And I think in general, my take is that you know, while sometimes things are surprisingly innovative and the uptake is really fast, like, of the SaaS services we sold Our biggest client was Mexico because we're selling to Nine Zero One Center. And Then In The US, they're super decentralized in their county city level. It's a super pain in the ass. Eighteen months to twenty four months sales cycle. And, like, super risk averse and, like, all kinds of The Mexicans, you want video on your phone and you call 901, they're like, give it to me. You wanna see dead people, naked people, doesn't matter. They don't care. Kids, like, they're just, like, give us the video. So we just sold all across. We were in, like, almost every state. It was, you know, an essential system. It's newer. So that was something where it's like, wow. The uptake was way bigger, and they just sort blew way past The US, and they're still way way in advance. We looked at the car insurance market. I mean, in Mexico, in particular, like, every time there's an accident, there's a guy in a motorcycle or a car that shows up at the accident. The adjuster does the thing. Right? Yeah. Costa Rica, I I we were rear ended our second week there, so we had a had the the guy on the motorcycle showed up and, you know Yeah. And so those, like, the timelines there, when we looked at truck or tow truck dynamics and all that, So there's all these kind of little interesting things. You mentioned the gas stuff. My my wife and I have a house in San Miguel De Ende in Mexico. I That's where I live. That's where I spent a summer with the family in ITE too. Amazing. Oh, amazing. Amazing. Well, hopefully, do a reunion there at some point with everybody. Mike's been We we have a gas, you know, tank on the roof, and it's, like, small and it's inefficient. Has to get, like, charged every month. But I do have an app, but it doesn't work very It's like sometimes I can get gas from here, and sometimes my credit card works. But sometimes it kicks my US card. Have to use my Mexican card, and then I'd use my Mexican. First, I like simple stuff like that. Right? We're like, man, if this was just really working, And then, like, it just on the I think where our our sweet spot can be is when there's, like, a multilateral development bank that wants to do a social good and has some big pockets. And a clear public good. For example, massive English language That was one thing we really worked with. Luis Vannan and Duolingo because he was on the board of the previous organization. You know, we scratched the surface of their app. And to be honest, like, it didn't seem to me that they were actually teaching a lot of people English just on the app. So then you go to the local level, and it's like they're talking about classrooms and teachers and, you know, teachers union. So, like, between the, like, super high level like, the super low level and, like, not a lot of creativity and bridging those gaps. So I think there's still a lot of opportunity in those creative solutions. A question I have is how generalized are some of these solutions in terms of all of or we're talking about or, you know, Mexico City or whatever. Right? So sometimes you have these unique dynamics Like, Mike and I worked in the Doctor and Jeffrey too. Like, twenty five years ago. And, like, I like to say that the Doctor invented Rapi. Like, you used to call on the landline corner bodega, and they would bring anything to your house and show up in four minutes. Right. And I was like, somebody just built an app for that and then created this whole thing. The other example is in San Miguel. You know, there's Ubers. But they limit regularly the city. And so these guys started their own informal radio network through the data ping on a on an app, and they just got, like, 20 guys that are buddies, and they sort of, you know, blew out So we use them instead of the Ubers because the Ubers, you know, are too slow, and there's not enough of them at all. So there's always, like, little you know, they're like, sometimes mimicking, but that sometimes that doesn't work for the local context. So there's like, a weird bridge solution, and, you know, everyone is like know, everyone lives on WhatsApp. Work in a Latin American bank. The whole thing is on WhatsApp and all that stuff. Oh, yeah. And all that too. Yeah. I well, WhatsApp, think, I think you could just focus on WhatsApp and building apps that are focused on being part of WhatsApp, and build something massive. So much there. I I mean, my preference would be to try to build things that are generalizable and that are extensible. Think because of cloud computing and sort of ubiquitous Internet connectivity, the ability to build something that is generalizable would be where I would wanna start. But, obviously, you start you know, you focus in one marketer in one area. But WhatsApp in particular, I also think voice voice agents. So the companies I'm the board of is a company called Boost Lingo. It's a marketplace and technology platform for language interpreting. And it's been focused entirely on human interpreters. And we are building out, fully AI based interpreting solutions I think, you know, the potential to build AI and I'm using using Replit, I've built some pretty pretty impressive proof of concept that are now going into production. But I just think about, like, if imagine because because calling people on the phone and getting a hold of people in Latin America can be very, very difficult. And you know, I I if you were to build out a bunch of AIH that could chat with people via WhatsApp, speak with people via WhatsApp, send and receive audio message you know, recordings via WhatsApp, and solve problems like insurance adjusting getting gas delivered to your house, what, you know, whatever it is, pay your bills, find out what it is, whatever it is. You could you you know, there's tons of opportunity with that. I do think it's generalizable. Mark? Jeffrey, like, if you guys had a magic wand, and PFA is insanely successful in five years, What does that look like for you guys? Star, Jeffrey. I mean, I think us being able to connect dots where they weren't previously connected and make this stuff happen. You know, think we don't we don't need to be at the center of it. Think we don't need to suddenly need to do anything, but we wanna be like, super like, attentive and current on all these very dynamics. And we saw this at the previous organization, you know, know, some of these folks have a a a, you know, the richest guy in Central America, you know, who has, you know, they're involved in so much stuff. Right? But they're and they care. They're they're not they've been focused on just doing their business. And and but they do wanna do other stuff, but they need ideas. So sometimes it calls with very basic, oh, do you know anyone here or there or, you know, have you thought about this? And and sometimes they're really kind of old school and they just have a foundation that their sister-in-law runs, they just write the check over there. And they don't care. And but but other times, they're more highly engaged. So I think us being able to, you know, connect these powerful players, whether it's private wealth, multilaterals, because I think that's a world I know when it's also one that's so frustrating that people, like, walk away from it. Same with governments. Right? But if you get the right people in the right government at the right time, and you speak in the right way, you can move things pretty quickly. Especially in the smaller countries, you know, Mexico, Brazil, different cases. But I think there's a lot of untapped opportunity. And then at the end of the day, it's having an impact at scale across populations. So we built a a large scale civic work program that was just doing all that. We built a huge small farmer parametric insurance model with the World Bank. And needs 384,000,000 of funding mostly from governments, but that's kind of thing they're trying to build out. If we can help the CAF, make more successful in smaller markets, their fund of funds so that it's actually hitting in a non duplicative way across the populations and not just sort of, like, fetishizing the, you know, young entrepreneur with a cool idea, but actually turning that into, like, a serious business that actually has you know, impact and and and revenue. You know, that that's kinda stuff that that that gets me super excited and that we're we're trying to build out And I think we're, you know, we're positioning ourselves well to be an active part of that ecosystem. Whereas most, like, DC type organizations are simply talking about policy dynamics. When are we gonna strike Ben as well? Like, we're not I'm not interested in any of that. I just want I want really concrete kind of business centric ideas with with key players and have the trust that, you know, we've also learned, you know, once you develop that trust, they just WhatsApp you and ask you, and you just WhatsApp them. Then then it's like, boom. You're in. You know? You're in, and and everyone else is out because you spent the sort of, you know, legwork to to be in. And I and I think I've found those communities very helpful, fun, committed, and powerful. And so we wanna help deploy them in a way that makes sense. Jeffrey, for you? Well, I'm I I would I don't wanna repeat everything for our set, but, I mean, Mark Mark and his a lot time together, so I I I share a lot of Mark's views here too. I guess in five years, if if if if PFA is a a known brand and we're the place that people call, no matter what the issue is, wanna get shit done, That's that's that to me is, you know the the whole landscape of the space that we're trying to get into, which is in between the private sector, the public sector, academia, think tanks, like, there's this gray area that we're trying to navigate and create a whole new model. I mean, the the foreign aid thing that just been blown up by Trump, and that means that know, in terms of development work and impactful things in health and education and economic development and you name it. Like, there's a whole there's it's it's all the field is it's been broken wide open. And there are new ways of way to we'll be be able to think about things. And that's what I've always enjoyed is how do you take new technologies, new new business models, and think about how how to apply those old problems. And that's sort of been the theme of my career from the vantage point of academia. I'm now that I'm out, like, I wanna do stuff. I wanna I'm tired of talking about doing going to conferences and you know, that I've I've I mean, decades of that. Like, I wanna I wanna be in the in the thick of it, and I do think there's an opportunity right now for for PFA to insert ourselves into a whole lot of conversations. I mean, the every week, we are having conversations about every topic on the map, and I love that. I love the the variety range And it tells me that there's a hunger out there for to do something in a new way. And plus the in general, the people who work on this kind of stuff are are fun and cool and interesting. They're not myopic and boring and, you know, they don't care about just making money. Like, it's it's about a greater purpose, and that is know, that's a big theme of my life as well too. So it's combine all these things. I've never made any money in my career. Like, chose academia, and I would love to make some money too if that's you know you know? Like that. That's one of reason why I left Harvard. I was like, you know what? I got like, I'm I've three three kids in college in a sec. So, you know, like, it's a I I'd love to make a little money. So, you know, that's in five years, maybe that's true. So all those things. You know, when all those things impact, fun, money, travel, done a lot of travel, but I I don't want that to stop. Like, Not a bad deal. It Mark and Jeffrey what are the what are the ceilings that you guys are kinda hitting? What's what's helpful to YouTube as you guys are building out PFA and you wanna take it to the next level? I think, you know, we're in this in this starting period and and just candidly know, and I saw this at the previous organization, we had the backing ostensibly of the vice president of The United States, so we had people coming to us. And but once you get that critical mass of, like, oh, you gotta talk to these people, then the phone rings off the hook, and then you're just trying to sort through who do I wanna talk to and who do I not wanna talk We're not there yet on this. We're we're gonna have a big big jump on January 1 when when we absorb this other group that has, like, 50 companies as sensibly as a part of it. But we also need to shape the business model out organization to make sure that we're sustainable from a revenue standpoint to actually pay our bills to to continue the work. But I'm very bullish on the the more we sort of operate in the space, the more valuable we're gonna And so every year that we're talking to all these people, we're gonna just deepen our one stop shop, you know, first phone call must you know, brand and and be able to kinda build this out. But then it's, you know, it's all kinds of things. I mean, Jeffrey, and I were talking about there's a a billionaire in the the Jersey area who's funding some of this initial work who really wants to go big on dengue and malaria. Through some new technologies around health. And so he's, you know, considering whether he, you know, deploys us with another guy, you know, on that challenge across The Americas. Is that both some sort of flexible seed capital in the 150,000,000 range, but also government funding in the hundreds of millions, to to to do large scale essentially, mosquito cultivation and release projects. But it's a permanent solution over time, so it could be super impactful on a health standpoint. But America is not as bad as the parts world, so it's sort of secondary, but it's a big deal vis a vis showing up to work, sick times, you know, health care costs, all that stuff. So I think there's all kinds of opportunities that we could have. But so I think it's we're we're just in the kind of growth stage. So as soon as we get up and running and get some of the company our business model essentially gonna ask company companies to pay us a membership fee to be a part of the team, and then we build out that team and and offer them some services and create that value And soon as we get, you know, 10 or 20 companies on on a membership, then I think we can, you know, keep keep moving. And, Mike, if if PFA is insanely successful, what does that look like for you? It's a good question. You know, I'm I'm here as a friend of Mark and someone who wants to help him succeed and and rey as well. And, also, you know, as as, Barnaby said, somebody wants to make the world better, hopefully, scale. So I I think, you know, just unlocking opportunity in a very large way for lots and lots of people. Like, I saw that work at at TripAdvisor. Right? Like, the the power of putting every small business in a country on TripAdvisor and driving people to that business for free. Really powerful, right, for hundreds of millions of travelers around the world. And I start ups funded by private equity can move really fast. And that's inspiring for me. And and so understanding what the opportunities are, what the barriers are, you guys you guys know this so well, like, where the opportunity is, where the where the barriers are by country, how do you where do you put your effort so that so that you can things up? Like, liquidity is a perfect example of that, a key key issue. So I think that the challenge is there are so many places you can work How do you boil it down and say these are the two or three we're gonna go after? That's the hard part. With a business model, it works. No. That's excellent. And what's helpful to you guys? Like, next three to six months? And I know that we only have a couple more minutes Like, what's insanely helpful to you guys? Well, for for me, it's just it's great to meet you, Barnaby, and and and to connect. We'd love to, you know, send you stuff, keep you updated. Feel free to reach out whenever as useful. We can exchange ideas. We could do this periodically if it's useful. But we're really just, you know, kinda building out the the network. And I think, bringing in unusual suspects is a key piece of it because we don't want I mean, certainly don't want this to be like a washing there's no business renovation or creative thinking happening around why do you want this to be more on value in New York, Miami, Texas. Right? Where are all the business investors and people who have insights into the Latin America kind of problem solving dimension. But a key piece is also the regional leadership, you know, the the the there's a lot of really smart sophisticated people with means in the region. And they're not fully deployed yet. And I think we want to deploy their talents and mind and capital in in creative ways. You know, a lot of them were just putting their money in JP Morgan where my wife works. Their pension funds are in nineteen seventies model still, and my wife's working on that to try to build that out. But I think yeah. So, you know, trying to connect the dots. I mean, again, part of the thesis is it's it's just The Americas. Like, it's not it's not that foreign at all. Like, if you speak the language, which we all do, like, you know, it's very accessible. Yet like, you know so, you know, Africa is a whole different game, different business model, different world, different languages. You know, we should be even more risk taking than aggressive and proactive and connected in The Americas because it's it's just here. We got the same time zone. We got, you know, cultural stuff is, like, basically fluid. You know? And so I think it I part of the thesis is, like, as we're punching under our weight so far, like and, you know, the the people that just wanna make money are just going after the big things in Mexico and Brazil, and that's good. That's been probably more impactful than any development project ever across the region. And we wanna kinda, you know, continue to scale those things up. And a lot of times, I think in the small countries, people are still grateful for you to show up, you know, and, like, if you show up and take us to Galpa, we'll, you know, be sitting with everyone we want. And and a in a weekend. And I think we can deploy that in a smart way where a lot of the orgs are just kind of slow, It's traditional you know, the development model is, like, not fast enough for the business folks, and we wanna be relevant to them. Yeah. That all totally resonates. I with this company that I mentioned, Boonshot, you know, I've said to them I sort of pitched something like this to them, and I said I'd be happy to fund, like, a person somewhere in Latin America who could be an analyst, who could kind of you know, leverage one of the LLMs to go do a bunch of of of sort of thought work. Because I just I feel like if we really looked at kind of the the the various companies in the portfolios of private equity and their their models. I mean, that's nice thing is every port private equity company their entire portfolio on their website. So it's really easy to go see what's there. And say, okay. Well, here's here's a set of of sort of industry solutions that have worked in The US. And there's, to your point, Mark, like, there's no reason this shouldn't work in LatAm. Like, either by buying existing companies, you know, was on the board briefly at a company that provides software for small law firms. You know? There must be tens of thousands of small law firms in Latin America. And then there's I I've looked a little bit. There's some, you know, older, you know, v one web kind of solutions out there, whatever. Is there a solution for law firms in Latin America that we could quickly build 10 times better than anything that exists, leveraging AI to help them with document analysis, etcetera. Build a company by buy a few companies, roll them up, and just go. And so I don't know if if you all know that you know what? There's I don't know why they haven't found anybody, yeah, I haven't checked in with them a little while. But feels like a first step is just doing some serious market analysis and finding some sectors or areas in need of a solution and then figuring out, can we put together a team? We find funding for that team? Just do one. You know? And you know, the liquidity problem is a real problem, but if they're profitable and growing, generally, somebody's gonna care. And maybe that is the model. It's just they just throw off cash, and people are happy with that. You know? Sort of hold you know, the the buy and hold forever model might be what we need to think about. But that's that's something I'm probably gonna try to make happen in the next year. I I really like that idea of RNB. Suppose you were gonna start up a new product refund? Targeting B2B SaaS, growth capital in Latin America. You'd you'd wanna do all that research to start. Right? Yeah. And it's who are the existing players? What are the gaps? And what are the opportunities, like, sector by sector for b to b SaaS through, like, America? Who are the strong players that that helps inform oh, helps inform potential people to acquire, people to replicate. Right? And that would all feed into the pitch deck for a fundraise for a PE to say, here's our here's our our thesis. Right? And here's our proof of the here's here's at least one data point you know, or or maybe that grows into a couple. Yeah. I know. But I guess my secret to some wave of magic wand is that Mike picks us up and decides to be the the lead the fund and do it. I'm like, it's not me I I wanna be involved. I like helping companies. You know? But don't I don't really wanna be, like, the managing partner frankly. So I I appreciate that. Confidence, and I will ponder. Yeah. Or or somebody yeah. We can oh, no. So, hey, we'll we'll we'll we'll brainstorm and and think through this and we'll we'll ping you in a few weeks if that makes sense, whatever whatever makes sense, just keep keep thinking through this. Love it. Awesome. You all. What a great group of people, and appreciate you making the time. Great to meet you all. Everybody. Bye, Barnaby. So