Meeting Title: hfcapital - Santiago Zavala and Jonathan Nelson
Date: Feb 13
Meeting participants: J, Santiago Zavala, Rigoberto Romero, Geoffrey, Mark


Transcript:
 
Them: Hello. Hello?  
Me: Hello. How are you? Podemos hablar en castellano también, si querés.  
Them: Ah, perfecto, como gustas.  
Me: Y con Jonathan también se puede hablar en castellano.  
Them: Ya, ya lo sé, ya lo sé.  
Me: Falso. Estamos la migra, pero aún no.  
Them: Santi, ¿qué tal? ¿Cómo estás? Bien, caballero. ¿Cómo está la DF? ¿Estás en la DF? No, estoy por Valle De Bravo, en este momento. Sufriendo, sufriendo un poquito. Guau, está dificilísimo. Sí, está en problemas. Jeffrey. Hola, ¿cómo estás? Ah, también. No, todos me sorprenden. Yo paso unos unos fines de semana en Mile Bravas, en Los años, cuando yo estaba viviendo en el DF, Es riquísimo. ¿Cuánto tiempo viviste allá, Jeffrey? Estuvo un par de años, en noventa y tres, noventa y cuatro, por ahí. Nice. Oh, wow. Nice. Ha crecido mucho la zona. Sí. Hola, Santiago. Hola, hola. Placer. Placer con usted, gracias. ¿Esperamos a Rigo o empezamos? No, empezamos. ¿Español o inglés? Spanish. I'm fine either way. So thank you guys for coming, Santi. Thank you so much for the time. Can let Mark give you a little bit of more information about the study, and maybe we just do a quick introduction, and then we can kind of dive in and learn a bit more about 500 and your thoughts on how you develop the ecosystem in Mexico and your thoughts on the ecosystem in Central America. But Nate, did you already introduce yourself?  
Me: Okay. Thank you. I'm not based in Córdoba, Argentina. I'm the COO of HF Capital working with Jonathan for almost one and a half year. And in the in the I was head of platform, sorry, and operations at Kali Ventures. A busy firm focused on AI in LATAM and in The US.  
Them: Draußen, nächste Mitte. Jeffrey? Hi. So I I I when I was living in Mexico City, I was working at the World Bank, and I was in the resident mission. And, does the resident interface inter in with between for the infrastructure portfolio. So working with vanobras en Sedesol, all those agencies. But since then, I spent most of my career in academia at Harvard and Brown. I led international fundraising the Kennedy School at Harvard, including Latin America of fundraising. Some work with many of the families in Mexico and across the region, and did the same at Brown. So I I, I've been I'm a cofounder of of PFA with Mark. And I'd love to get some ideas on how we can get some more traction in Mexico because I I think there's so many opportunities, but it's a it's a complicated place. And you really kinda need to know different how different actors relate to each other in a way that you don't have to in other countries. So And, Jeffrey, can you talk a little bit since Mark is busy, can you talk a little bit about PFA and long term, what's your guys' vision with it? So so, basically, PFA comes out of both I guess, the collective experience we've all had in in in international deal making. And that there's like, deal flow can be slow, It can be inefficient. And what we're trying to do is fill the space across sectors. So we have a lot of experience in the multilateral development banks, with think tanks in academia, private sector, government, all these different sectors, and they talk to each other very well. And we're trying to play a role in the middle in really facilitating conversations, dialogue, and and help I guess, make make make deal flow more efficient and bigger. Between The US the region between the region and The US, also in Europe. Southeast Asia. So we're trying to be a lot of different things. But mostly, it's it's based on our networks, are pretty pretty good across a lot of countries and a lot of a lot of industries. Awesome. Very clear. Mister Ed Smith. No. Thank you, and and sorry I've got some guys stuff in the house. But, yeah, Jeffrey said it perfectly. We're trying to get stuff done in the region, be useful, and and be the connectors across the various ecosystems. And I think this project, did we talk about CAF? I mean, we have a specific project with CAF, to do an analysis in Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, and the Doctor of the sort of entrepreneurial ecosystem. Essentially, they've hired us do two things, do a historic analysis of a of a commercially oriented venture fund that they've had for twenty years. Help sort of provide some recommendations for what they're gonna do moving forward on that. And then at the same time, they're in the process of launching an impact fund. And they want to understand how to engage in outside of Mexico and Brazil so that, you know, all the all the investments don't go there, Or if they do go there, what do we do in those four countries? What do do in smaller economies? If you just let the capital go where it's gonna go, it's gonna stay in Mexico, Brazil in many cases. And so what should they do? Ecosystems, accelerators, blah blah blah. So we wanna take the pulse kind of of 2026 after we've seen various waves and there's lots of people with real experience. And give them something useful where they can be sort of more smartly oriented in in moving forward with both the commercial kind of permanent fund and, like, a short term impact fund. I know if it's five, ten years, but, that that they're building out this year at the same time. So we wanna get current and and smart and hear from people like you that help us get there. So I know if this is the one and only call or this is a quick touch base, and then we try to bug you later. But but great for Jonathan for connecting us. And I'll I'll add a little bit more color. When I first met Mark, he was the head of the board of the IDB. He was the US representative on the board of directors. Oh, wow. Since then, he and I have been kind of going back to forth, commiserating about how to grow economies across LatAm. And one of my favorite quotes from Mark, he's said, I'm just fucking tired of all these precious little development projects. We just need economic growth. And so he and I have kind of resonated with that I was an adviser to his version one point o. It was a partnership for Central America. Where they reported to Kamala Harris. And their job was to actually grow the economies of Central America. And within a 4% team, within two years, got 5 or $6,000,000,000 in commitments to new business in Central America. Is that accurate, Mark? And so they're Jeffrey and Mark are very modest, but they're heavy hitters. And so Santi, who the hell are you, and what radicalized you to dare to go into VC in Mexico? In the That's so so such a interesting couple of questions. So first of all, my to meet you. We're happy to be useful in any way. As as Jonathan mentioned, I've been obsessed in trying to understand how to develop the ecosystem in in Latin America. I I usually, like, try to summarize that by saying that I'm just trying to help create legendary companies in in Latin America. And I believe that that's the path that ultimately will lead to development. When we started, and I'll give you more context of what we've done and and happy to be useful in any way. We we dream with the idea of trying to move the GDP of Mexico 1%. We started first in in Mexico being Mexicans. Right now, I would say that the companies that we've invested in are probably getting close 1,000,000,000 of revenue per year, together, or they're they're kinda like there. We just need to grow 16 x more or impact, and we'll be done on that. 1% of GDP. You know, it's been it's been a decade, but I think, like, we're on the path to to getting there. So, I mean, happy to give you a little bit of a quick background of myself and what we've done. And then please take it know, how however it's useful and and happy as Mark was saying. Like, this can be a first touch point. Happy to to interact as much as you want. So my name is Santiago. I come from a family of, entrepreneurs. My father did a bunch of companies in Mexico, and I saw him struggle and have some success and then a lot of failure and everything. I learned to code when I was very young because all the the the companies my father was doing were related to, technology. And, you know, just being in Latin America, and and Mexico, I I've been a victim of, different things, security and other stuff. And I've been in a situation where I feel that there is no way that there is that that I can have that impact. And, luckily enough, for a couple of random reasons, I ended up meeting some hackers from the Bay Area. Who, had a community, and we that community, and we replicated those events in Mexico City. We started doing hackathons when I was still in college. And and and we started to replicate that in other cities of of Mexico. We went from one city to 16 cities doing events every four weeks. And and growing a community to hundreds of people in each one of these cities very quickly. Like, a year or two. So that was the first moment. And and going to the the question from Jonathan, what radicalized me to be doing this? I feel like was the moment where like, the only moment and, like, up to now like, it continues to be the only kinda, like like like, lever that I've had where I feel like you know, there's there's so many obvious things that are wrong around me and around us, in our community, in our society, in our political system, and so many things. And I found, like, this lever that could try to make things better what that was entrepreneurship. So we grew that community lot. We then then I moved to the Bay Area to be first employee of a startup over there. And I became a bridge in a way. A lot of people in the community that I had started, which was called super happy Dev House, started to visit the Bay Area and most of them staying in my couch, and and kinda, like, just or or or the floor. And I sometimes also stay on the floor of other people's apartments. And we're trying to get Angel We're trying to get connections. We're trying to get, like, understand how to getting you know, ingrained with these startups that were happening. So we we were lucky enough to find a handful of people who had, like, some connection to Latin but had been successful in the Bay Area. One of them was a very weird hippie person who had drove, from San Francisco to Argentina in seven years while he built his company remotely, and he had a huge exit. And he was like, hey. Like, I I I I'm glad to invest in Latin America because I know that it's required. And he's not from LATAM. He just, like, did it for fun. So we ended up finding, like, this group of, like, four or six people who who told us, like, hey. We want to invest in Mexican startups. So just into those those Mexican startups. And we started to do that. We spent, like, six week six months trying to do an angel group that would invest in Mexican startups. And they were like, yeah. I wanna do, like, 5 to $20,000 investments in, like, maybe, like, one to two companies this year. Just, you know, bring the deal flow. And we would bring them deal flow, and they would say, like, yes. I wanna do it, but not this one and not this one and not this one. And the reason was, like, there was a huge gap between the expectations of so many things, like what the companies were solving, how these people could help the company, the understanding of the business, the structure, So one of my friends at that moment, and Jonathan knows him really well, David Weekly, he joked and said, like, hey. Why don't we, like, actually shift this around? And just tell them to give us the money, and we'll we'll invest in the company. So we decided to do that, and I was 24. Had no idea that that meant starting a font. So we ended up raising $250,000 and investing that into seven companies. We call that Mexican BC. We spent roughly, like, 35% of the money in legal fees incorporating an LP vehicle, which now, looking back, if Angel Ease had or something, I know, we would have been more efficient. Out of the seven companies, they mostly moved to my apartment in Mexico City for a year, and I worked with them really early on. All of them were prelaunch We built like, product. We launched. All of them go to market. Five of them died relatively quick. One raised a lot of money and then failed due to fraud from the founder, which was a very painful and horrible thing on 2017, so many years later. But lessons learned in many ways, and happy to also talk about that. And then the other one is a very, like, successful fintech in Mexico, and and it's been a a a really good company. All in all, we were able to return that financially. It was a success. It it was a success on connecting, you know, us to the to these angel investors who were the LPs. And, 500 invested in that first fund, that was the way that we got involved with Five Hundred. And then in 2012, we decided to try to do a font two. When we try to raise money again from from these angels and five hundred, five hundred suggested that we do it together. So we ultimately joined five hundred to do their first thematic fund. Five Hundred at that moment had raised one first fund that was $26,000,000, I think. And we joined. At the same time, they were raising fund two. Fast forward well, Jonathan. Yeah. Jeffrey, Mark, do you guys know what five hundred is? Five hundred startups. Right? Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. Jeffrey, are you familiar with it? I know the details, but so that would be great. Yeah. So so five hundred started, two years before trying to do a very diversified approach, both, a super early stage very big portfolio, try to go to hundreds of companies per per fund instead of, you know, 10, 20 companies per fund, and do it very internationally. So what we were doing kinda resonated with them. So they invested in our first fund. When they were doing fund two, they invited us to join, their their their company and have, like, a specific fund for Latin America. Since then, Five Hundred has now it's a sixteen year old organization that I'm part of leadership team. We have, like, $2,200,000,000 of assets under management, and we've invested in, like, 3,300 companies. Including some, you know, very successful companies like Canva and Twilio and SendGrid and many other amazing companies. And and so so in 12/2012, I joined to do the first thematic font inside of Five Hundred. So Five Hundred continues to have a flagship fund that invests internationally. We've done six of those funds. 2012, I joined to do the Latin American one. I'll tell you the quick story of Latin America, then I'll come back to to five hundred. And then we can go back like, deeper into the LATAM. But on LATAM, we've done four funds, one in 2013, one in 2016, one in 2019, and one in 2024. We've done 350 investments, roughly, like, $40,000,000 across all the different vehicles. And then 500 they like what we did in Latin America. So we're replicated that in Southeast Asia. We've done three funds in Southeast Asia in 2013 we started. Thousand fifteen, we started Korea. And then in 2017, we started Middle East. And we've done very successful in each one of these regions. We have multiple funds in in in Middle East, we were the most active in the early stage. We have a growth fund. Southeast Asia. We were investors in Wrap and many other companies that have gone public. So that's kinda like the the the evolution of 500. And I'm happy to kinda, like, go back to the LatAm side, but and I'll just mention a couple of things more on the on the LATAM side, and and then you can tell me, you know, where where to pull this from. So on the LATAM side, we've done 350 investments. A lot of that is is center so is is Spanish is speaking Latin America what we cover? We have done investments in Brazil from the global fund. We've done, six investments in Brazil, which I don't count in these numbers. We have focused a lot in Mexico because it's the biggest economy A lot of the companies that we invest in other places, when we invest, they try to move to Mexico. So we have a whole bunch of companies from Ecuador and other places that when we invest, their their first thing is how do we open Mexico. We have, I would say, you know, like, maybe 40% of what we do is in then Argentina, Colombia, Chile, are kind of, like, the next strong ones. Perú was getting there, and then it kind of, like, stopped because of the government getting really complicated and the the ecosystem kinda, like, stopping. We have invested, and we know Central America really well. So we have invested in companies with founders from Guatemala. We have only one company that was based in Guatemala, We have, some companies that are from Costa Rica, one that I think that is doing well. We have one in rep we have two in Republica Dominicana. One of them is doing extremely well. And then we tried to do something in Honduras, which I'm I would be more than happy to share kinda, like, in an off the record kind of fashion because we did a whole whole long engagement to try to do something big in Honduras and ultimately felt true. I'm happy to share. But kinda like that because if that ended up having, like, some complications, like, I'm happy to do it a little bit more off the record, if you will. But other than that, like like most other things, like, I'm very open and super, like, underrecord and everything that just you saw, like, one thing that was very weird. But, anyway, so on fund two, we got the IFC to invest in us. In fund three and four, we have the AADB, have a whole bunch of corporates especially banks. We have BBVA, Bancolombia, BanRegio. And another bank from Colombia that made us sign an NDA that we cannot mention them. Is very weird. But it's a it's it's it's it's it's it's the other big bank in Colombia, which is weird. Anyways, And then we have family offices and angels, and, like, that's that's it. But, yeah, I mean, like, that's a quick intro. Happy to understand how it can be useful and yeah. Something do you guys have the largest portfolio in Mexico? In Latin America? In Mexico, for sure. Like, there is no question at all. In Latin America, I know. If you count for Brazil, probably not. Like, there must be some players in Brazil who have that. And yeah, I I I don't know. I I haven't done that that thing. If you just see central like, Spanish speaking in Latin America, we are. Because MXTP had a a larger one, and we have, like like, crossed that. And then Wyna also had, like, a comparable one. So, like, but we're there kinda like yeah. Yep. Was did you were one of the first VC funds. It was like you and Adventures. Right? That were one of the pioneers? Yeah. For sure. So when we started in Mexico, it was Angel Ventures was doing the Angel Network and then they turned into a font. Alta Ventures was getting started. All BP, which then turned into high ventures, was kinda getting started. You know, was not there. Eric was an angel investor. He's an LP in us, but he was more like a a person. And, yeah, it was like like, the the the Vargas brothers were doing bereavs. Then turned into cometa. But, like, it was like a wave. Like, we all together were almost at the same time, and, like, we were very connected. So everyone like like, anyone could attribute, like, they were their first doing something in one way or another, but, really, it was not like a wave where we're all together. Can certainly say that we were the first ones investing in, like like, the really early stage. Like, all of these people, they wanted to grind, like, one to two million tickets. They wanted to do, like, you know, like like, they were a lot into MBAs who had, like, fancy last names and well connected families, and we're the first ones to really go and say, like, hey. You know, this is for everyone and anyone who has experience building code and understand the Internet probably is better positioned than someone that just went through an MBA. Yep. What's been your biggest pain in the ass in LatAm? And then what do you see is the biggest pain in the ass in Central America? I mean, like, they're probably very related. And and by the way, we've spent a lot of time in Guatemala. I would say that, like, maybe, like, 10% of our funds of the last font comes from Guatemala and LPs. So we've been very deeply connected. I can name some of the people that we're working with, but some amazing people. So we've been more successful at raising capital in Central America than the deploying capital in Central America, which is, something I'm not feeling proud about. I mean, like, the the biggest pain in the ad, definitely fundraising. For sure. Like, absolutely. Hands down is is the number one, two, three, and four, like, bigger problems. If I had to dial it down even a little bit more, like, the the part that I'm extremely frustrated after, you know, decade and a half of doing this is the lack of belief of the business community in Latin America. That the business community in Latin America can create businesses. Since, like, that simple. It's just it's it's it's horrible. I've had meetings with family offices of some of the most important people in this country where they have told me that they don't want to invest in this because they want to diversify to other regions and countries because they already have their businesses in Latin America. I'm like, yeah. Like, that's a great way for us to not grow, in any way. Right? But, anyway, so yeah, that's it. After fundraising, liquidity one. The families want to invest outside of LATAM, and they don't wanna invest inside of LATAM? Yeah. I mean, like, I I see all these families super eager to go and give, like, random busy funds in the Bay Area money because they believe in innovation. And like, technology is going to transfer, like, transform everything. And then like, they see so they they see that we're, like like, doing and they're like, oh, put like LATAM. You know? Like, I don't know. I yeah. And then liquidity is another big one. And liquidity has and and you know this so well. I like, we've had so many conversations about this, but part of the problem with liquidity is that we don't have the public markets. Where companies could just go out there. Getting public in The US is hard. I mean, like, Nubank and and and MetaLibre are great examples that it's possible, but it's, like, the two examples. Like, there's no not more. I'm hoping that we get to see some Mexican like, hopefully, clip at some point to get there. But because that has not existed, that's hard. And then the other big problem that I see is that the big corporations in Latin they don't see buying startups as a way to be competitive, to grow, to transfer their businesses, etcetera. And they are just, like, missing on the opportunity. And it's kinda like a time where I I I feel like we have so many startups in the region that are growing that are gonna be super competitive. And by the time that they act want to buy them, it's gonna be too late for these corporates to even like, want to pay for those valuations. Yeah. What and would you see you raised a lot of money in Central America. What have been the challenges in deploying that capital? Is it the talent network? Is it the types of that are there, or can you double click on that a little bit? Yeah. Sure. So, when we started on 500, I I feel like we were very big on this idea of the time machine investing where we could see something happen on a more developed market and say, like, hey. You know? Let's go and do that in other markets. So we saw little bit of how Uber was getting started when ended up investing in Jaxi in Mexico, which was the first cap hailing, app in in Mexico City. We ended up having an exit to Cavify. We continued to hold stock on Cavify, which is, like, a great company, super healthy. We we saw the same trend, and we invested in GAP in in Southeast Asia, and that went through like, all the way to being a public company. So we're generally happy of of doing that. Right? Like, you know, you you see a thing, and and then you go and and invest in in that obvious unicorn, we call it, internally. But then when markets are too small, that doesn't really work out. Because it's like, well, like, you know, if and Uber and Didi have not gone to, like, your very, very, very small country or city, like, there is a great opportunity for you to do it. But I don't think that that's gonna generate venture returns. And I and I'm not sure that Drappy or Didi or Uber would buy you is of just, like, opening an office and competing. So you might just have a great business for three to five years. And we had, like, that with a company in Ecuador. Like, they opened, like, a some something similar than Grappy before Rapi entered Ecuador. Then Rapi went to Ecuador and killed him. They pivoted to do another thing, and we actually invested in the pivotal. We're super happy with this new thing that they created. So it's it it was a great team, but it's hard. So we see a lot of companies in Guatemala and in Honduras, in Costa Rica, and and, you know, like, or or like, Republica Dominicana, many other places like Paraguay. Also, we we cover a lot, that they're just doing that. And and and we see them, it's like, dude, like, this is great. But I cannot invest in you because, like, their market is not big enough for me to generate the returns that I need. And the opportunity is not opening in the rest of the region. So I cannot help you open Mexico and compete with Uber in Mexico City. Like, it's just, like, we don't have like like, together, the capital to do it. Right? And and and even if we have, would would it be the best way of of using capital? So now Uruguay is is the example. Like, if you want to go and research like, one place that just, like, has it out of the park, We have invested in so many companies from Uruguay, that are just not like that. They they they partner with Annie, which is like a government institute for innovation. They get some grants They build something that is global. They get some fair customers in Uruguay, in Argentina, then they start selling in Mexico and sometimes even in other places. So like, it's it's weird. Like, I feel like Uruguay has I I think, like, they have the educational system to create really good talent. I I think, like, they have, like, couple of different things that make them think more global, but it's it's kinda weird in that sense. Costa Rica is a little bit different. Costa Rica, definitely, of the Central American country that we mentioned, like, I feel like like we have, like, some people who think more internationally. But even the company that we have right now that is there, like, it's a company that is, like, don't know, like, $3,040,000 monthly recurring revenue. I think they have a clear path to get to, like like, a 100 maybe in in in that country. They to expand to Mexico, failed, went back to Costa Rica. Now they're ready to try it again. So, hopefully, like like, they do. But that's kinda, like like, the challenge. Yeah. Can you we were talking last week about the idea of venture returns as opposed to building, like, great you know, just great growing companies that do, like, tens of millions of dollars. Can you just kind of walk through how you think of that and how you think of that mass. Yeah. For sure. I don't know much about the venture industry, but I know about finance. Like, explain to me, like, I'm five. Right. I mean, like, I'll give you what I try to tell our own entrepreneur and and and I say this publicly in podcast and everything, and it's just, like, on our internal Right? So in the first fund, we had, three really successful companies in Latin America. Cleve Confío en noventa y nueve minutos. That's, like, roughly, like, 4.40.7% of the portfolios. So hit rate is, you know, 4%. In the second fund, we had one company out of 74. So that that's less. Right? Like, that's, like like 1.2, like, 1.4%, I think, something like that. And then, in it seems like we might have, like, seven out of a 109. So, like, any number that we think about, like like, it like it sounds like we're gravitating around, like, four or five, 6% of success, if you will. Right? So if I have a fund and I have 5% of of of success, then I need to do, you know, like like, at least you know, like, 20 x per per font. No worry. No no worry, Mark. So so, you know, you you need to do, like like, 20 x return at least if you want to return one x. But our investors are not asking for one x. Right? They are asking for, ideally, three to five x. Right? So we should be try trying to target that if we're lucky and and smart and whatever, like like, the the the the math is around that four or 5%, then we need at least a 100 x. From that one company. Right? Wrap your attention point is $3,000,000, so that means if we want a a 100 x return, then we would need a $300,000,000 exit. Right? But the problem is that that would that that mass would only make sense if we are the only investors and there is no dilution after us, which is not true. Right? So that various dilution that we've seen from us to the exit path in Latin America is is a little bit over 50%. Wow. So if you think about that, then we're that that takes us to 600,000,000. Like, for sure. Right? So now what would make a company be valued $600,000,000? Well, a company right now, what, like, software is trading at, like, four x maybe? So you need a 150,000,000 of sales. Right? So when I'm when I'm analyzing a company, I'm thinking like, okay. Can you with the best you know, if everything aligns, like, if success just happened, to happen, can you get to a 150,000,000 in sales in the next seven to eight years? Like, that's the the the the summary of it. Right? For me, for my end to point, with my risk kinda like where I've been seeing my results, And now, like, if you see, like like, noventa y nueve minutos, it's not there, but it's all like, almost getting there. Creep and Confío are there, so we know it's possible. Baobab is not there, but it's kinda, like, almost there. So we know it's possible. Now it's possible, in the case of those four companies, with the market the size of Mexico. Right? If you go to a country that is, of the economy of Mexico, which could be the case of Argentina, Colombia, Chile, like, okay. So you would need to be four times as big. And if you go to Central America, like, then, like, you would need to eat the absolute like like like, is the market really big enough? For you to be doing those sales? That's kinda like the the rough math in my mind. Now, like, that's why if you look at our strategy and our wording and everything that we've been publicly saying, we're more like, hey. Let's do regional companies. Hey. Let's do global Right? Because then that becomes a little bit easier. Theory. And so when you look at small markets, like Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, you, have that company that company has to be thinking, I'm gonna be multilatina. I mean, probably, yes. Yes. The only other way would be that that that that you really tell me, like, how you're gonna be the, like, the only player in that industry, in that market. That is because if if there is an industry that's, like, a billion dollars a year in that country, which is there there's many, you're gonna eat 10% of it, like, 15% of the like like, it might make sense. Right? But 99% of the cases, I think it's gonna be easier for you to be thinking about that. Yeah. What are the challenges that companies in those countries have in scaling outside of their local market. So so the challenge is the one that I mentioning. Let me let me actually pull the report from one of these companies in a second, because I would love to actually talk about, like, real companies in of just, like like, pointing to imaginary situations. Yep. But think it's gonna take me a couple of minutes. So I I feel like one of the reasons that that this is complicated, tying it back to the time machine investing, is that the most obvious things that entrepreneurs are chasing are the ones that are kinda, like, in that that time machine. And then, like, very recently, like like, I met this great team who were doing, like, a very interesting playments pay in Latin in in in Guatemala. And I was like, guys, like, your market is not big enough. Yeah. Our plan is to grow in Guatemala and then move to and then open Mexico. And I'm like, guys, like, you're directly competing with Like, is like so far ahead. Like, there is not amount of money that you're gonna be able to raise. So, like, I feel like that's there's a lot of that. So I'll give you an example of a company from Republican Dominicana that I'm very excited about that is called Art Alperstate. They're doing something relatively simple. Which is giving real estate brokers the ability to create, like, their own white label, websites that show the properties and then convert their own leads and stuff like that. There's a couple of them in the region. There's one that is actually kinda, like, the dominant player in Mexico. They started in Republica Dominicana. They're a relatively small team. They're at 76,000 MRI. So, you know, like, they they are, like, you know, crossing the the million dollars revenue run rate. They are profit. They are profitable. So they they they are, you know, 12 people. They're growing. They have me just so they have 3,375 agents or companies that are paying for their service. But the crazy part that most of them are in Mexico and Colombia. Really? Yes. Insistent. And they are growing faster than the dominant player in Mexico. So I think, like, we're gonna be able to take over them. Right? So this is a company that started with in the Republica Dominicana, their first customer was a relatively big real estate company in Republica Dominicana. They built a really nice software. We're able to find them. We funded them. We've connected them with the right people. They're opening, like, other countries in Latin America. And, you know, they are like, it's it's not yet a huge success story, but you can imagine 12 people in in RD just chilling, building product, and growing faster than a bigger, better funded company in Mexico. I mean, for me, it's just like, that's what I wanna find. Right? Why did they decide to stay in the Doctor opposed to go to Mexico? I feel like they they they they had they did some time in Colombia and Mexico when they were over opening the market, like the founders. But it was like, hey. Like, you know, it's cheaper for us to just be in RDE. We have like, access to the talent that we need, and, like, they think they they can grow. Yeah. Are they having any issues with the regulatory environment? Not that I know of. I mean, like, nothing they do is regulatory related. So when you guys invest in a company like, part of what we're doing is doing, like, an evaluation of the regulatory infrastructure of the country. Like, should recommend anything to change? What how do you guys what types of incorporation do you guys actually invest in? And I think I know the answer to this, but just kind of for the record. Yeah. I mean, so I I don't know where you stand in the whole, like, man sandwich careful hold, but, like, I'll just give you my my own kinda, like, thing. So when we started, we started investing mostly in Delaware companies, the Delaware C corps. Some people have, like, sometimes come with, like, Cayman or, like, other places. If 500 invest in those places, we would potentially do it. In 02/1415, we started investing in entities, and then the Mexican government, when AMLO came in, like, they changed something on the trans of the tax, and we stopped investing in Mexican companies. So now we're mostly investing in Delaware. A lot of people want the LLCs, and then we have to have the fund to occur which we do, which is fine, or mostly, like, C corps. And then there's, like, this big loaf farm that, in Miami that started, like, promoting the Cayman sandwich as the best thing, in the world. It's more expensive, and we actually don't necessarily love it, not only because it's more expensive, but it's just complex. And now it seems like people like and they were, like like like, like like pointing to people who got burned in situations with Delaware seekers and LLCs and seeing, look. Like, that's going to happen to you if you don't do this thing with us, with our money. Like, pay us a lot of money to do it. Now have people have been also having, like, some challenges with the sandwich. So, like, of course. So now our some people are pointing at them saying, oh, that's, like, not the best thing. For us, the the simpler, the better. And I think, like, just having, a US entity is, for us, the the simplest thing to do. We for sure didn't invest in an RDE entity and kinda, like, try to find out, like, how to do that. And we wouldn't because we know that downstream capital wouldn't either. Double click on that a little bit. Double downstream capital. What does that mean for you guys? Again It's kinda for the record. Right. I mean, if we if we look at a company like like this one, they they receive investment from a funding RD after us, so that's great. Venture do. So that's great. Yeah. And and then, like, some Mexican people and angels and stuff like that. But, like, if if they were an entity in RD or in Colombia or, like, in Argentina or anything, like, they like, only local entities would invest in them. Like, no one would go and towage, like, an entity in in any of these countries, including Mexico. And even in Mexico, like like, the process is just slower, more expensive, etcetera. So when you look at the like like, something like Stripe Atlas, like, it's just, like, $600. You click a button. You have an entity in The US. You start operating tomorrow instead of having to wait wait, like, weeks or months in in Mexico. And now where where where my coming was coming from is that it's definitely very important for us to be able to bring the top investors of the world to look at a company and potentially invest in it. Right? So if you look at at something like Confío, like, we have you know, the soft banks of this world and and and like, you know, like, some of the best funds in the world have invested in in company like this. So they need to have, like, the the the kind of entities that they expect and and that is not only for like, safe of mind kinda, like like, thing, but it's also because, like, you know, least in Latin America, if the entity is in The US, it feels like, oh, you're not getting into money laundry. Like like, you know, like, no one from, like, reputation is gonna invest in a US entity and and stuff like that. It makes it really, like, way more easy. So people at Tinder? Trust US entities more than trust, like, a Guatemalan entity or a Hendera entity. Like, very few global investors wake up in the morning saying, today, I'm gonna invest in a Honduran C Corp. Yes. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. And it's both the local people and and the international people. It's it's like everyone. Yeah. If Zooming in and, Jeffrey, if you have any questions, feel free to feel free to interject. What do you think if you had a magic wand, what would you do to improve the e Central America? Like, what would you do to improve the entrepreneur quality or the entrepreneurs in these countries so that you would be more likely to invest in those countries? I mean, I I I I feel like there's there's it's hard because if I had a real magic wand, maybe maybe my my answer would be different. But, like, I I I I now kinda, like, limit my mind to on on the actual possibilities of what's true. So let me let me just, read this to you. Right? And and this and I can send you the link. This is from an economist in The US. So he says, like, the the the key question is what, if anything, can be done to propel Mexico out of its growth estagnation? On paper, the country has so many advantages over its peers in Latin America. It's borders The US. It's part of the USMCA. I mean, exports to The US are and exports to The US are stronger than ever. The big public investment push could have also catalyzed more lasting growth but that didn't happen. My sense is that the benefits from the Mexico's advantages its integration to global supply chain, proximity to The US aren't shared widely enough within the country. That's the best rationale for why private consumption growth is so anemic. Which is the main reason that that Mexico stagnant GDP. This is a structural issue and reflects an elite that doesn't share Mexico's gains sufficiently with the broader population. No matter who's in power. But it's worth making a side note on the currency as the chart above, like, blah blah, Mexico es superpeso. It's also superstrong, much more more like the peso and the Brazilian real. Mexico is compounding. It's a structural problem with a currency that's way too strong and preventing foreign manufacturers from shifting more value add production to the country. The solution is a deep structural reform to spread the gains from globalization more evenly coupled with much looser monetary policy. When I read that, like, my my skin just kinda, like like like like, changed, and I had to like, save it. I wanna tattoo it in my arms. It just, like, how do we go and explain to this, like, elite? That if they don't invest the you know, the assets that they have created, into the same region so that we have more consumption, more entrepreneurship, you know, more risk taking, more everything, then nothing is going to change. And it's just, like, like there there is no other thing. So if I have, like, this, like, magic one, would be like, I I I don't say, like, I force, like, the rich people to invest in start ups. Like, I mean, like, that's kinda like a simple way to look at it. But it's more about, like, just how do we create that conscience that, you know, like, AI is coming Automation is coming. Energy is going to be super important. Robots are gonna change, like, everything, and we're here saying, like, oh, no. Like, I I would rather allocate my money in, like, The US for diversification instead of, like, investing into my country or, like, my peers, my neighbor, my, you know, friends here. Our capital gains how are capital gains taxed in Mexico? Capital gains are taxed not too high. Is kinda like not very clear if it's a capital gain or not. Yeah. So, like, The UK passed a law that if you as an angel investor, if you invest into a company you can write off that investment from your taxes. And if you lose I'll actually have to double look at it. Any losses that you can actually do, you can deduct from your tax, not from your income. So you actually deduct that from your tax. That's pretty good. And there's a bunch of incentives that they have created even through funds. So if you invest in a fund that invest in The UK, that is also any losses through that fund are also deductible. So they have a bunch of kind of tax incentives to get people to invest locally and to invest in funds locally. And through that, I believe they've actually driven $6,000,000,000 of new investment into The UK in the last ten years. Wow. Do you think that there's something, like, tax incentives? Do you think the Big Co's or the Big be interested in tax incentives to actually invest locally? I I know. I mean, like, that that's kinda like a them. Outside of my realm of of of, like like, knowledge. And and, you know, kinda like my reaction to that is that countries in Latin America are so a start for tax and they are kinda like especially, like like, the, you know, the the the one that we see right now here in in Mexico more more closely. I don't think that the current government would be very open to something like that. And and, ultimately, mean, like, I I don't think that just like like, of course, like, show me the that, like, I'll show you the behavior for sure. Like, I can see that part. But it that's a tricky one. I don't know. I I I I think, like, generating a collective kinda, like, thrive mentality would be what I, like, would do with my magic wand. More than creating, like like, specific incentives because my my challenge with that is that I feel like the risk would be still be higher than potentially putting their their assets into safe investment somewhere else even without the tax incentives. Yeah. Is it is it un malinchismo? That the families want to invest in The United States, or is it just, like, from a diversification? I mean, I understand currency difference if And, I mean, if all of my assets are held in Mexico and the peso drops 20%, my whole family's net worth is actually down 20%. Whereas if I diversify into The US, the Mexican peso drops 20%. The, you know, the dollar went up 20%, and so now I'm bit more diversified. I mean, I understand. Like, financially, I understand that, but is it that, or is it like a malinchismo? Like, I know who invest in Silicon Valley. Because they're better at it than what it is down here, or do you have a sense on that? I mean, it's it's all of them together. Right? Like, this is systemic. So if if everyone decides that because we want to protect our, assets from the the the the peso outlook, I should invest in The US, and no one invest in Mexico then, course, like, that that makes the Mexican peso be less valuable in the future. And then, like, it's a self processy then you are smart for having diversified. I think, like, what we're finding, like like, the the the total failure that we have is a lack of leadership. Leadership where? At the government level or the family level, the the empresarios level or yes. All of them. Yeah. I mean, like so it might be related to obviously, this fact that there's a very big divide with between, like, you know, the wealthy people and and, like, most of the population. So it's kinda hard to understand that the influencers of this world would be those business leaders. But and and then, like, you add, like, a security aspect and other stuff, and you you get to this point where, like, no one is leading the the the the business. Community in a way to really think strategically on how to build this things. So, you know, I I I feel like even in very strong, like, needed communities like Monterey, where there is definitely some leadership on and and and and some people who are doing cool stuff. Still feels very diluted and and not very clear. Like, there is no one that really inspires the like, either the founders or LP or angels or the government to say, like, yeah, we should be doing this. And and it's hard. Like like, who would that person or who would those leaders be? Like like, it's hard to point at them. Like, I'll give you the okay. Let let me let me still list up the the the the complaining kinda, like, like, negative aspect here. Like, I'll I'll give you the opposite. Like, I'll tell you a good leader. Right? So one of our LPs is one mini. Juan Mini is a person from one from a very important family. His family has, like, a big bank, a big like, real estate developer, like, you know, some very big companies. He had the privilege to go to a Stanford and have an MBA there. Having spent some time in Stanford, he met, like, this scrappy company that was starting to do, like, some personal computers and mobile ones and whatever. So he joined Apple computers and worked on the cooling system of the first laptop that Apple computers did. Right? And then he stayed in the Bay Area, did a like, a a prop tech company during the dot com. Took it public. And made a lot of money. And then after that, came back to Guatemala lead his family. And as part of that, he has created something that is called Tech Guatemala, not related to the, tecnológico de Monterrey en Mexico City, it's just Tec Guatemala. They have three buildings in, sector of Guatemala City they re like like, they have, like, reconstructed a lot. Just for entrepreneurs, it's filled with, like, early stage companies that he almost gives the rent almost for free, has a family office that invest in them, and, you know, he's like a very public figure saying, hey. We we need this in Guatemala. I think we need a thousand Juan Minis. Right? That's that's what we need. Does that mean we need those people to come to Silicon Valley? Get rich, and then go back? Maybe or or or not. Like like like, some of our LPs should be those people. I, like, I know them, and I talk with them. But they are not public. Like, they are like like, you know, they are not any way yeah. And then you get a little bit of the opposite. Like, you get all these family offices that invested in in in funds like us like, ten years ago, and they haven't seen liquidity. And they're all saying, oh, like like, we don't wanna do more of this because, like, liquidity is a problem. It's like, well, liquidity is a problem, and it's going to continue being a problem if everyone decides to stop investing in venture. Is did it help when did it help when IFC and the IDB invested in your funds? It did a lot. Yeah. Like Now much like, to push the gun on, like, how much capital that catalyzed? That's a tough one. For a too, I would say a big part of it. So the AFC investment in font two was very important because at that moment, says was leaving, which was kinda like my my cofounder, and I had been more in the back end of the fund. So, like, I was just, like, starting to take, like, a little bit more of a front facing to to to to this process. And I think, like, we had a lot of people who wanted to support us but they didn't know if I was especially alone capable of doing it. Right? So we had, like, two things that helped a lot in that moment. One, IFC investing in that fund. And second, joining Kaufmann Fellows. That moment. Because I didn't have an MBA. I had, like, some experience in the Bay Area or whatever. But, like, I I feel like that gave a lot of confidence to people. That this was for real, that this was not like me just like like, trying to continue this thing. It was like, oh, Santiago, like, like, has an international backing, and, like, he's doing these, like, you know, like, global program. I think for FundTree, iDB even though it's a way bigger font, I think it impacted less. But Really? Guess, like, that's just because, like, I had already kinda, like, positioned myself a little bit better. I know. And then from for from far, IDB helped more. Because IDV has almost not like, continued to support funds. Like, they have this approach where they have tried to do as many funds as possible instead of trying to just buy one, like, for multiple vintages. So that the fact that they did two continuous vintages with us was a very strong like, oh, wow. Like, these guys, you know, they they like, IFCI IDBs in their LPAC. They've been working really well together, and now they are repeating. But that's a very strong message. So that was strong. Now I don't think we'll have them for the next fund just because, like, it was rare that they did it two times in a row. And I think, like, a lot of people are going to ask, like, hey. Why why is ITV not investing again here? It's like, oh, like, they they they they almost never invest two times. It's it's almost sure that they want three times. So I know. It's a policy thing. Classic. Alright. Yeah. Sorry. I I when you talk when you talk about all your investment they seem to they're a 100% in the digital space. I mean, are you are you a okay. Is and when you end so is there a big disconnect between, I mean, the the the the richest Mexicans all made their money not in the digital space. So you look at the consejo mexicano de negocios, so, the group de diez, or the, you know, the really the biggest, biggest families, I mean, they're that's those are not digital digitally minded. I mean, all those companies have digital elements to them. Do you think that that's structurally a problem? Do you is one of that one of the issues is that so much wealth is is locked up in kind of the old industry and the real economy. And and other lessons other lessons that you've learned in the digital economy I mean, I've I've what I've heard is Central American countries are too small, and so in order to to get enough returns, When you look at outside the digital space, I mean, there is there have to be investor classes that are will will live with small returns, right, in a smaller country. I'm getting at is is how generalizable is the digital experience to the rest of the economy? And is there a way to break into in Mexico, for example, into the the real wealth, which is in these you know, in in Monterrey, it's in the Garza Salas and Garças and Garças Garças. You know? And in and in in Mexico City, also, it's you know, they're what, 10 families that have you know, other anyway, I guess you does does that make sense? No. I I I I see your point. And, like, what I'm going to say might sound like totally and completely outside of this world, but it's just like kinda like where I'm coming from a little bit is that I mean, like, you asked, like, when you look outside of the digital space, I don't look outside of the the digital space. Like, my LPs, like like, pay me and and, like, I, like, made responsibility to to to my stakeholders and my founders and everything is that I'm a 100% focused on what I'm doing. Right? Like, Yep. So for traditional businesses, if there is other opportunities and returns and other stuff, like, I I honestly I I have no idea. Right? I mean, that that's the right answer. But now the funny thing is that the digital world has been expanding. Right? So we started like, oh, this is the Internet, and then, like, oh, it's mobile, and now it's everyone pocket. And now it's, like, everyone's almost like, you know, what, like, 60% of your time, you're connected to the Internet and doing things or maybe more. And certainly, like, more and more businesses are being affected by what, like, innovative start up decided to do in their industries. So when I talk with RLPs, they're extremely interested to invest into startups because they know that everything's changing. And with AI, that's just going to accelerate like crazy, like a 100 eggs. We're beating a frontier like, honestly. So, like, when I talk with some of these bigger families, I can point to them on how their businesses are going to be impacted by technology. And they are very interested. Like, I'll give you a couple of examples. So, a couple of people in the family of MobilityAdeo, the biggest mobility company in Mexico, they have tons of buses, like 10,000 buses or something like that. They own buses in Spain. They own have the airports in Mexico. Like like, there's, like, well, true ownership in Azure. Right? They invested in us. And they've invested in all of our funds. Seven years ago, they created a a CBC, like a corporate venture capital fund. To invest in startups. And they invited to me to be part of their investment committee, which I've been very fond. Like, been super fun to sit with the the directors of, like, all like, this company and see how they think. For now, seven years. Right? So, like, that's been super interesting. The the the people from Proesa owners of Metallica, one of the biggest companies in in in Monterrey's Enrique Zambrano, note Zambrano's from CEMEX, Zambrano's from proeza. Same story. They created a CBC, like, six years ago. They invited also me to be part of the IC, been part of their IC. It's been super interesting. They deployed $50,000,000 into technology companies. So this is a purely manufacturing company. They sell billions of dollars a year on just purely manufacturing, but they have, like, this very deep interest. So I feel like that's like like, I I feel like when I talk with these families, they understand the value of the But when they they they see, like, how how they want to allocate capital, still say, like, oh, I'd rather invest in Valley or, like, in some other places that I'm trying to allocate here. The worst conversation I had was with so so I I talked with some people, not the top people at the Coppel family, but some different people there there there they had, like, five family offices. This was one of them. This family office is LP of multiple funds at 500. Right? So our global fund and other regions. So I'm like, oh, I'm gonna go, and I'm gonna have, this. And they are super happy with the investment that they did. They have returns. They are, like, super happy. Right? So I'm like, oh, I'm gonna go and introduce my like, the next LatAm phone that we have. Like, this it's probably going to have a great meeting. Right? Going to the room, same story. They want to learn. They want to be connected. They want to do things. Like, it's it's like everything's yes, yes, yes, yes. Know. Like, this is gonna be a great ticket. Like like, this is gonna happen. And at the very end, they are like, well, but sadly, you know, our mandate doesn't allow us to invest in I'm like, why did you even take the meeting? And and why do you have that mandate? Right? And it's diversification, as Jonathan was saying. So I don't know. It's it's it's it's it's the top one. Yeah. Do do a lot of these when they do invest is it more like a corporate strategic investment into your fund? Or is it an asset play or is it like, I wanna diversify my portfolio into real estate, my family business, and I'm gonna start diversifying and collect alternatives as well as my public equities and bonds. Are they thinking at that level, or are they thinking this is gonna affect my family business, so I need to know what's going on? Oof. I cannot speak for them. Right? But I can take some assumptions. I feel like the the other people, for example, they invested individual in us. They haven't invested from the corporation. And then the corporation has invested in our global funds. So it's kinda funny. Like, the corporation has invested in our global funds, but individually, they have invested in us as angel tickets. So I feel it's more like an access to us and kinda, like, support and kinda, goodwill, then like, I don't even think that they see it as an investment. I I I think they see it as as support and yeah. And then like, an example of one of our biggest, like, most successful business owners that is just, an amazing person, and we've been lucky enough to get connected with him and kinda, like, have him support this. He has absolutely told me that he doesn't see this as an investment, that he sees this as philanthropy. And impact on Mexico and generation of jobs. And, you know, it's kinda weird to have, like, someone tell you that when it's one of your big tickets. Yeah. I mean, Juan Mini invested in us, and I don't think that he's, calling us to, like, hey. You know, what's where are my return He's more like, hey. Like, where is my impact? Hey. When are you spending more time in Guatemala? Right? Like, why are you not investing in more companies here? That's fascinating, actually, that people think it consider it to be philanthropy or impact investment. Yeah. That's really interesting. They actively consider you guys as an impact investment. I mean, not everyone. We obviously have some other people who see us as a pure returns per play, but, absolutely, we have investors who see, like, NADV and AFC are, like, perfect examples of that. Yeah. Any other questions, Jeffrey? Sorry to interrupt you. No. I I I mean, I know I know I would Copel, and I know Enrique Zambrano, and and I know some of those people, and and I'd I'd I'd I'm glad to know that that they're that they're making investments, and diversifying away from their industrial base. Well, the co pedals are different, but do you know Álvaro Rodríguez Arregui? From EMEA? Yeah. Yes. I'm I'm I'm a very, very small font of his of his font. Oh, okay. He's he's on our advisory board. Nice. So we so he's been trying to help us think think a little bit about Mexico. A lot of co investments with them, and and they were happy to well, I I can ping them to see if they would take a very, very small ticket from me on their last fund. So I'm I'm I I I'm investor in their funds. Yeah. All good. On the talent side, what would you do more to develop talent in Central America? Would you do more hackathons, start up weekends? Mean, yes. I'm doing hackathons right now. Have I teach you released it already? I'm I'm growing a new thing. It's called release before ready. It's a twelve hour hackathon. I think I saw that on and your brother's been promoting it too. Right? Yeah. So we started last year, kinda like re reengaging everything that we did with super happy dev house and start up weekend. Did 13 last year. I think this year, we're gonna do 20 We're opening new cities. We wanna do more in the Bay Area. I should invite you to those, for sure. And we definitely will open Central America at some point. So the answer, like, would we do hack hackathons? Absolutely. Like, we're doing that. Like like, that's that's something that we know that contributes very correctly to incentivize people and kinda, like, deal communities and it's a good way. I don't know. Like, with all of AI and all all of her aspect to education, technology, ethic, is is shifting very quickly. We see less from people to invest in themselves. It's very sad. You know? People are now like like, we're we're in Platzi, as you know, and and Platzi is growing very healthy right now thanks to a b to b play that they are doing. But the b to c side is teaching us that people are less willing to invest in educating them right now because they feel that it's a wasted investment. Given that AI can just do that thing and be more to date with whatever. So people are more in the hustle and kinda, like, enjoying or, you know, like, Wow. Thinking. Like and and I feel like that's why, like, yeah, I it's kinda like a whole other topic, but it's so tough. Like, that question is so tough. What has been the biggest value add that you've had from the from the development banks? Just the brand and reputation? Or did they do anything else for you as a fund manager? Do they help you in any other way? That's a that's a tough one. So it's it's very different experience we had at IFC and AADB. Right? Because with IFC, they they sold us on the story that they would be really valued at. And the team that was, interacting with us was extremely good. And we learned a lot from the first years, or even less. But then, sadly, IFC went through a transformation. Trump got elected and, Atool Meta left IRC who was leading all the investments And funny enough, he just recently joined our global board. So now I'm interacting a lot with him. But at the moment that he left, a lot of people left. And the team that was responsible for our ended up having zero people. So we had no contact with IFC for a little bit of time, now they are now now that team is back, and now we're creating a new relationship with them on year nine of the fund, Jonathan. So, don't know. Like, I'm sure they are great generally, but, like, in our case, it was kinda very weird. AADB has been way different. Like, they've been really good at their relationship. They've supported us on, like, making some decisions on their some stuff, especially giving us some reputation. The one piece where I would kinda, like, reflect that was very different to what they told us was going to be is that they detailed us that they would if they invested, a lot of people would follow them directly and kinda like they would do some intros and stuff. And I can I can count one LP that they introduced those two and and and and from one intro, one invested? So they have a 100% success rate. On their introductions, but it would definitely suggest that they try to do more of those. But they've been great. They are super fun. They are very direct. Yeah. Did you work with Kirby at the IFC? No. Did you know No. Just met him in in Panama last week. He was at IFC, and now he's at IDB building a a big fund trying to raise a billion dollars. But in for infrastructure. So not not No. It's so so so we work with BitLab, which is their like, innovation and venture space. And inside of BitLab, there's three teams. And there's BitInvest and, like, another one that I don't know. And then there's the the venture portfolio with Lila, and that's like, that team we know really well. They've introduced us to different people at at the whole IDB group, but most of the interactions have been with directly with the team. Yep. Yep. I'm afraid I have to leave also, but, it was great to meet you, Santiago. Thank you for your time. No. Likewise. Happy to be of of any use. Yeah. I just have two more questions for you, Santi, if you have another five minutes. Yeah. Thank you, Stephanie. One is we're doing the survey. And we're just trying to talk to people in Centroamérica. About the ecosystem and talk about people from the outside who look at it as do I invest in the region? Who are, like, two or three people that we've got to talk to? In in which region? Or South America. In Central America, Juan Mini would be definitely. I mean, have you talked with Yanma? We're talking with her. We're scheduling you in the Janmac Volcano Summit. Definitely. Have you are you talking with invariantes? Not yet. You should. On they're on your map list. Right, Matthew? Yep. Yeah. In Variantes, it's also an RPO for us. And they were the original connection to get to Juan Mini. They're great. They they they they they did the right thing. Like, they they they raised a whole bunch of money, bunch of funds, Half of them, half of investment in funds have in direct investment from the portfolio of those funds. And then mandate that percentage of that to be in Latin America. I mean, like, you you you need a 100, like, a thousand pan minis and a thousand invariantes, you're done. But it's so hard because there's only one invariante and just one Juan Mini. But anyways, Yeah. So invariantes, Juan Mini. Janma, 100%. Now the the yeah. The I just just giving you some, you know, play like like like, the the feeling of this kinda, like, Guatemala So Guatemala, we saw like like, I saw this in Mexico City where the beginning, everyone was kinda, like, helping each other, and, like, we were old friends. And it's just, like, one thrive. Right? But then, like, things grow, and you have, like, one font. That invests in a startup and then another fund invests in a startup, and they are competitors and certainly, like, something happened. So, like, walls start to kinda, like, exist and, like, suddenly, like, hey. This is mine. It's not yours. And suddenly kinda kinda, like, divides that stuff. So we we we leave that in Mexico, then we saw that, like, happen like, two years later in Colombia. And then we saw that, like like, later happen in other places. So I think, like, Guatemala is kinda, like, in that point where everyone was friends and everyone was kinda, like, supporting everyone and, like like, super good. Now, like, I feel like the fractures are going to are starting to happen. So in variantes, and Jana with volcano, we're, like, supertide. And now, like, I see that is doing volcano capital and, like, invariantes. Like, I've seen, some events that they schedule at the same time, but, like, different events. It's like, like, so, yeah, I don't know. No. That makes sense. What is your take on start up Chile? Good, bad? Neither? Both? Yes. I mean What's the good? What's the bad? So start up Chile is very big. So the question is not really if start up Chile is good or bad. The question is if Corfo is good or bad. Right? Corfo has a lot of initiatives. So Corfo has its money from the exploitation or the abstraction. I don't know what's the word in English, like, explotacion. Of the lithium from the Salar De Atacama. And someone very was very intelligent to have that instead of funnel to tax and then kinda, like, the government decide how to use it. They it goes directly to Corfo to invest into the future of Chile renovation. So you have, like, the best funding entity in Latin America to support everything that we're saying is cut for. Right? So that's great. Like, how could you complain about that? That's what we want. Right? Like, we want resources going to entrepreneurs. That's, like, yeah, fucking go. Now the way that Corfo has structured the programs I feel like they've been trying to optimize too much for trying to do, like, pro Chile? Instead of, like, trying to achieve a specific result. And the and as anything in Latin America and the world, like, when there's a lot of money, there's a lot of people who are trying to take that money and have them in their pockets. So there's a lot of programs that they've structured that are that sound grading paper, that are grading in in reality, but when the actual execution like, sometimes they just don't generate the results that they are looking for. I'll give you an example. They have a a way that a phone can, like, go and knock on their door, and have a three to one apalancamiento. Right? Now why we done it? Like, we have a $17,000,000 fund. Wouldn't it be better to have a $16,000,000 fund of course it would. Right? But it comes with, oh, but that money has to go to Chile. Well, okay. We could do that. Right? Like like, there's people who go and then invest it only in Chilean entities, that are subsidiaries of international C corp. And then there's, like, a share agreement where I can change this stuff from here to here kinda like I don't know. Like, eat me a dose a lot of these. In in Mexico because they have money from the pension funds also. I don't love doing that. Like, that sounds like like, you're literally telling me that I have to do a, and then I'm literally doing b. But anyways, like, it seems to be illegal. But then the second piece that is the trickiest one is that they don't give you the money as an LP. They give it to you as a loan. And you have to repay before you pay your LPs. So in the case that we all lose money, the same. But in the case that we actually make only $40,000,000, my LPs makes zero. So it's a one x liquidation preference, essentially? Which is great, which is totally great. Because if we do three x, then my LPs did, like, three x. But I did, like, infinite x. Right? Like, it's crazy. But, yeah, it's too complicated. And then the the second piece is that the the it's very political. There's a lot of Chileans who, like, have built their whole careers just getting money out of Corfo. So if you want to go and get money out of Corfo, my feeling is that you need to go and hire one of these Chileans who are just there to get money from Corfo and, like, they get a a yeah. I don't know. It just feels super weird. And so start of Chile is part of that. It's been super positive for Chile. It's been super positive for the Chilean I feel like it could have been way better if they had actually structured it a little bit better. But, yeah, it's good. It's good. The last question is is the CUF has actually run a fund, I think, for about twenty ish years, and I think they actually took were an LP and some other funds as well as they made some primary investments. And part of my job is going to be evaluating that fund, the performance, and how they could do better on the next one that they're designing. I will probably have to do an NDA Would you be under NDA? Would you be willing to actually look at the fund and have a discussion with me on that and thoughts on how they might improve it? I think so. I mean, I need I would need to check with 500 if there okay with me signing an NDA like that. Personally, I'm, like, fine. I have you know, I I have the comparison up for all the funds of 500 from different vintages. I have the comparison of all the funds that I've in, which are, like, eight in the region, and I have the comparison of two CVCs in the region. So I can give you some context of, like, who did what and yeah. Perfect. And this next week, I'm working with the London Exchange on maybe building a growth syndicate to actually do pre IPO to IPO pathways. So I have probably talked to fifth entrepreneurs in LATAM about listing in London, the better process. A handful have been interested. They wanted to move forward, and the board said, hell no. If you actually Google the London Stock Exchange, their press has been terrible. They suck at marketing. Mhmm. Blah blah blah blah blah. I've told them this. So you have a chicken and egg problem. The only way in a startup world to actually get around the chicken and egg problem is to steal chickens. So my thought in stealing chickens and getting this liquidity flywheel going is can I work with an investment bank there They build a network of investors? I bring them startups. They like a startup. We invest. 30 to 60,000,000 on the condition that that company makes best efforts to IPO in London in two years I'll take a board seat, and we'll walk them through that process, and I will stick with them after the after the listing is done. So as part of that I'm developing kind of a shortlist on a no names basis of companies that would be willing to could absorb 30 to $50,000,000. Looking like Baobab gonna talk to Roy as well. That that that was kinda, like, obviously, my first one, top of mind. Yeah. So I'll I'll talk with him. If there's anybody else you think I should talk to. My initial conversation is I just need to say these are likely candidates. These are the types of portfolio companies I would actually be introducing to you guys, and how do we structure the deal. It's Yeah. Noventa y nueve would be also a good one. That's what I that was I was also thinking. Yeah. So they are, like, at a 100 mil ARR. They you know, we had all these, like, different conversations. Their last race was at six fifty one x cells. If they were not at the up would be a 100 mil. So their valuation is anything between a 100 to 650. They just did an internal round at three fifty. So that kinda, like, gives us a new value right now. They are EBITDA positive. They have new cash in the bank, new valuation. Do you know how much they're growing year over year? I think they wanna close the year with, like, a 160,000,000 ARR, so 60%. But I mean, Cool. I mean, they want to. Right? It's not that they they they they will, but, like, yeah. No. That makes sense. And then the last thing is is I am working with a solo LP who is interested in buying secondaries on a 10 to 50,000,010 to $100,000,000 check basis. So we could essentially do a tender offer. Oh, wow. I like that a lot. And they would be the sole LP, and we would create an SPV to do that. So I'd be the fund manager for that SPV, and then we'd get a bit of carry on the back end. I mean, Confio would be perfect for that, but we can't because they have the banking license, and they don't wanna change the cap table until they get the the the the the freaking license. Clip is going through, a whole thing that wouldn't allow us to do that right now. But what a 99 would be the biggest ones for for me. I don't know if Flatsi would be interesting or something like that. But maybe. In fact, Christian two years ago when I was at practical about a second there, he's like, no. We're fine. But that was a small ticket. Yeah. It's Christian's Guatemalteco? Yeah. He's shopping. I'll talk to him as well. Chapin. It's a beautiful third because he left very angry from Guatemala having not felt supported as an entrepreneur. So maybe you should interview him. Go to what again or something like that. And then because of volcano summit, I got Jana to invite him, and we went together. And now he's super connected to Guatemala, so, like, it's it's nice. Yeah. What else is helpful to you, dude? How can I help the next couple of months? Man, I need to get more connected in the Bay Area. I'm starting I spun up Hackers and Founders events again last week. I hadn't really done them much since COVID because HF kind of died during COVID. So just like you, I'm kinda spending it community again. And now that I'm buying secondaries and I'll be doing a growth syndicate, it's a lot easier to get reconnected with entrepreneurs and high net worth individuals and other funds. So tell me who you wanna meet. Yeah. I mean, I'm gonna I'm I'm trying to go, like, every month or two. I'll be there in March probably. I I would love to just hang out or something. But I feel like I I need to connect what we're doing in LatAm more to to the Bay Area, and I just need to be more kinda, like, connected in general. So if you know of anyone who would be cool to talk to absolutely. Yeah. No. And I once we get more of a budget, I wanna start having, like, VC mixers. Yeah. I wanna start investing Latam DCs to those DC mixers because I know. My axe to grind is why is VC dot com Summit in Miami? It needs to be in Palo Alto. Yeah. Because Good. I have I have to run now. Yeah. But but I I'll ping you on this because it's super important, and let's let's do something together. Yeah. Buen abrazo. Un gusto. Bye. You know, quite a bit.  
Me: Ajá. Muy de tiempo, así que no me puedo quedar, tengo otras cosas.  
Them: Vale.  
Me: De no es el lunes.  
Them: No. Ok. La conversación, entonces.  
Me: Dale, besa.