Meeting Title: Rockefeller Foundation strategy meeting on Central America food systems convening
Date: Feb 11


Transcript:
 
Them: Probably get a contact there. There we are. Where's Natasha? Natasha.  
Me: Hi.  
Them: Thanks for taking the time. We just wanted to show Rockefeller more of the whole team Yeah. Sorry. Go ahead, investor. Yeah. So so it just it it's you know, Start with a a series of phone calls, and I can lead to others You know? And then you can kinda, like, stitch together picture if you talk to various people that refer to one another, in the NGO community, government. So there we go. There's somebody Oh, there we are. Hello. Hello, Drew. How are you? Hi. Hi. Good to see you. Yeah. Good morning. Good morning. Sorry. I don't want to able to join us, because she had a We didn't want to cancel on you guys. So it's gonna be just us. I'm gonna introduce my colleague Natalia. She's also part of the regional office, recently joined here in our Bogota in our Bogota office. Great. Wonderful. And, perdón, I I missed your name, when I was switching headphones. Natalia. Natalia. It's very nice to meet you all. Yeah. Nice meet you. And we can do English, Spanish, whatever prefers. But did I don't know if you've gotten a chance, Andrea, to meet the whole team. I'm not no. I I don't think so. I think Perfect. Like, yes. I think you were here. Luis, we've met a a couple of times already. But I don't think I know Andrea, Natasha. I I don't think I've been Andrea, I wanted to introduce yourself. Sure. Hi. Nice to meet you. My name is Andrea. And I serve as the program coordin and social media specialist for PFA. She's based in San Salvador. Alright. And Natasha?  
Me: Hi. Nice to meet you. I'm advisor and work in some projects in the operations and ecosystem partnerships building. For PFI. But I'm COO of also of HF Capital that it's a partnership of  
Them: Yeah. Natasha lives in Cordoba,  
Me: PSA.  
Them: Argentina, and and does some work with us on what they were doing with the CAF. On, an entrepreneurial ecosystem. So we just thought we'd never join. I know that's not the main topic for this, but, think the goal here was just, and you know, Rego from in the last time we met, Rigo is based in Honduras. They we got a thought. Yeah. We've we've met. Yeah. So we sent over the the concept just try to kind of advance and narrow the conversation to see what what what for you guys. So we're all ears. Welcome. Any feedback? What did you love? What you hate? What's different? Some feedback on that, Mark? And and I I don't think we might not need the whole hour, but but we haven't yet. Case we need it. Let me close the the window. I don't know you see this evening. Sorry. Okay. So thank you for for putting this together. I think it's really much better when you already have something we can discuss. More concrete conversation. I think we do have, some some feedback also some things that change internally. So we we do want to maybe change the focus of the of the the proposal a little bit. I'm going a bit more all in into food systems. Like, right now, it's this intersection between climate migration and food systems. Because never heard correctly, we we discussed, like, reality of the dry coil or and how they affect the like, the the consequences you had on food systems was driving migration. And that that was an an interest for the foundation and that can new interest. Esto es put systems or, like, what we like, the transition to regenerative agriculture, but also the connection of the intersection with school meals is getting more and more more more momentum and more importance for for for us. So I think, what the first thing we want to do is just focus on good systems and and and drive the convening just to to that specific theme, which, I think, doesn't change a lot. Like, I think the right courier is still the right scope and and, like, geographic scope. But we all I I feel like they they need to put that intersection with climate migration. It might come out because at the end, like, it is a reality. Like, the sense that if food systems get affected, people migrate. But it doesn't have to be like, for us, it's no longer the phone like, it should no longer be the focus exclusively. Also, we I I feel like you you too mentioned it a couple times. The focus is more Central America. So, like, the right corner, like, including Honduras, and then Rodrigo is is based there. And El Salvador, and, like, making sure that we have stakeholders from from from the region I think we agree that the right place to have to to hold the meeting is what the matter, and probably we're gonna have because of that problem, we're gonna have a little bit more representation from Guatemala stakeholders. But I I I do I I would like or we would like for it to be Central America focus. So just making sure that in the in the sorry. In the concept note and in the in the especially the participants, we have representation from the region. Sorry, Mark. One one question on that. What about Southern Mexico? Yes? No? Do you wanna include that or different I would what is your opinion on that? Because my sense is that when you include Mexico, Mexico takes over. And I don't that's why I guess what it is. 'm only I'm saying they're health part, but it's a risk. I'd I'd defer to investor Arriaga, but I think you're right in general if you include, like, Mexico City. And all of Mexico, they take over. But sometimes Southern Mexico is a different country in some ways and that there's ways to include companies here. We can explore it or not explore it and come back to you with an option but I just wanted to ask the the rest of your geographic regionalization crystal clear. Include all three, do it in Guatemala, but you don't want it to be a Guatemala only event. Yes. Exactly. And I I would leave in Mexico like, a little bit to your what do you recommend? If we are able to include them without eating like, don't know. Losing a little bit of the of the scope of that we are, like, prioritizing Central America. That would be okay with us. Like, I feel like it's a little bit more up to to to what you think would work. Perfect. We'll get back to you on that. Yeah. I know, Lucy, if you wanted to add something. Got it. The other the other the other person is then, like, the going more to the the deliverable to implementation. I feel and and this is more due to a budget constraint that we need to, like, narrow it a little bit. Because it's a little bit broad, and I understand that that that's attached to, of course, the the the the price or the request of the funding. Do have some capabilities for convenience that could work with you, and that could also lower the burden in the sense that we're gonna have a person that's gonna join soon, the next couple of weeks. I don't have her start starting yet, but it's gonna be by the latest, by March. So it's yeah. At the latest, she's gonna start at the March. And she can work with you guys and and also take some of the planning on the convening. I'm saying that because that could also help you, like, include that in the budget in the sense that that you're gonna have that that support here. Regarding the the the the in person convening, yeah, it should be one day. Don't think we need to meet individually. Like, that that I think if we take out the, like, semi structured interviews, which I feel are there eight ten stakeholders Maybe that would also help us lower the, like, narrow a little bit the scope. I feel like we can leave the the first, like, stakeholder map the sense but in a, like, higher level, I think I don't think we need to do the interviews. I think, like, that we can use the convening for that, and I feel like we can design the convening in a sense that we get participation by the people that are attending. And I feel like also really good at that so we can help facilitate that with with the person that's joining and the team in New York to make sure that we organize that, like, a dynamic that it's a little bit more participant, participant And that we can get that perspective from the stakeholders So we don't have to do that on those who, like, in person or virtual one on one interviews. That's, like, ideas I'm throwing out of how we can, like, narrow this a little bit more. Because I feel like what at at the end, like, what we need is more, like, identifying who our key stakeholders are so we can invite them to a convening. Organizing the convening itself, and, the follow-up in the recommendations, like, those things that that could be like, should be included. It can be, like, a high level like, high level recommendations on what came out of the meeting that could be more like what they may make conclusions on the and any active, like, agreements or areas of alignment. I think that that's the way you guys phrase it. That came out of the meeting just a short document to, like, have that in paper. Post meeting. So I think that's yeah. I feel like it live at that. With these changes, we can if you guys can put together, like, a revised version of the concept node, and a revised budget for that, and and we can I like, the next step after agreeing on that, it's, like, setting up a date or at least, like, a tentative a tentative day or a couple weeks to to narrow down the the the date for the convening and start working from there? Like, we can we can and I do wanna hear a little bit of recommendations of when it it would be a good timing for the region. I know, like, usually national holidays and, like, when do people usually take vacations? I would take that from from you guys, like, recommendations on when when would be a good time probably, like, at the like, beginning of the second semester, maybe that could be a good a good time Just give us enough enough time to plan to to get the also the the portion out of the way and and be all done. Done. So super helpful. I got a series of questions if it's okay to just narrow that down, but that that's super clear. Our thinking, just to get let you know that this gets to some of the following questions. With the pre interviews, is it particularly with the private companies, our experience is if you just invite them to a meeting out of the blue and don't give them a lot of clarity on exactly why do they need to go, what are they being asked, what do they need to prepare for, that sometimes you get less participation. With some of the others, governments and civil society, you know, if they're available, they'll likely show up. If it's in their interest area, and they can kinda show up cold, Our approach is to make sure that the private sector are really well prepared, and we help do that prep preparation so that they walk in there with something to offer to the room, like clarity on, like, is it their program map or their sort of business interests or their outlook for the next year. So that was the thinking on the the pre interviews. Okay. We will probably do those anyways to some degree, like, maybe a a lesser like, I'm not of a mapping, but just a we'd like to write a one pager with you, of course, and say, this is the purpose of the meeting, and this is what we want you to come ready to deliver. With the thinking from the last call with Liana that we want to lead with some clarity. Right? So us, the the more you prepare on the front side, the more likely you are to be able to lead with something clear on the outside. But I I understood you clearly also you know, essentially a meeting readout with key themes, like, two, three pages is more of what you're looking for rather than, you know, specific deliverables or kind of projects to build on with certain companies or whatnot after that. And maybe, Mike, what would be helpful is if you could include that more detailed audio. That way, we know, like, kind of, like, how my like, make decisions with a little bit more information. Like, should we include this? How much that I actually is, or how much that represents? I think that that would be helpful when reviewing that in in the next version. Perfect. And do you have a number in your head that you're trying to, like, hit roughly, or you want us to do that line item thing and then you guys can decide based on the value? So I think we were thinking a little bit, like, half of what you have right now, but I I think the line item would help us it down. Right? Like, because I'm I'm not I'm I don't know how much the convenience is in Guatemala, so if again, those are there are some expenses that are going to be fixed and, like, that's how much it is. But I want I think the line item could help us narrow it down, with more information. And then just on the on the person, this is someone based in Bogota, the person that can help with, like, event planning. And okay. And so that's is that, like, a facilitator or a moderator, or what what's the role of that person? No. She's she's going to be, like, in charge of convenings for us. Like Okay. Like, she would be, like, a liaison for, like, for for for the foundation? We do have a lot of capabilities in terms of a committee planning. In New York in terms of how to organize the sessions in a way that's most useful for the objectives that we have, recommend it tends to look like like traditional, like, panels or keynotes. But I made shirts. There there there's probably gonna be some presentations, but we also want to have maybe some roundtables or some other types of sessions that are a little bit more part of this Mhmm. I don't know why I'm having trouble with that word today. Mhmm. So that one, that's a little bit long And and and she can offer that. She still joined, but the idea is that she's going to to plug into that team in New York, and she can she can be helpful in that. Of course, declaring local even well, she's not having anything. What's matter for like, in person, and probably that's gonna be up to you guys. But, I mean, like, she she can help. We like, depending on what we decide like, she can be, like, another, like, part of the planning team with you guys. Depending on what we she can do, like, virtually or she can do from Bogota, Like, for example, defining the like, the the part of show, the day the yeah, the show, it's a as I grow. No. That's clear. Rico. Go ahead. Sorry. Mark. Thank you. Yes. I just wanted to ask one question regarding the a the eight to 10 stakeholders that we were talking about. And I just wanted to know about your preference. We sure have a preference. We we do have a and we we we kind of stated at the in the proposal. But I I just wanted to know about when we talk about eight to 10 stakeholders, are are do you prefer bringing the eight to 10 stakeholders that are convincing at the same time to to, you know, to present ourselves, you know, present the foundation, present our scope of work, hear them out, or hear hear them out about what is it that they're doing as well, what what is the their possible contribution to and a possible collaboration that we can do with the with the foundation, or are we thinking, having would it be your preference of having, you know, a meeting one on one with each of these eight to 10 stakeholders throughout the day? Just to make sure about your your preference and and how you see it. I think I would I would need to check with Gianna. I I don't think she would like to have eight to ten one to one meetings. I think that I I think maybe a space, like, maybe a roundtable or something during the convening where we kind of, like, curate that that that invite list in the way that the main stakeholders are included might be more but I think we can we can ask her, like, these one on one meetings tend to be first of all, logistically, a a lot of a lot of work, and it'll take a lot of time. But, also, in the the sense of expectations, that's something that we've had, like, there's a lot of expectations of what the foundation come found. Can, like, support And the old size that we might be able to support one project, right, like, or one like, partner with one organization, or couple of organizations in one project. So, I mean, just to keep the expectations a little bit more clear and a little bit more modest, I would prefer not to have the one on ones for everyone. That makes sense. That's clear. Yeah. Everyone everyone thinks you have, like, $5,000,000,000 that you're gonna come and and drop on the tables. We we know that you're That's not that's not my a concern. So I'm just Just to keep expectations a little bit Sure. If more And then in terms of, your key audiences, how would you rank sector companies that are kind of clear in the food space and or doing something in the region or potentially doing something in the region versus governments and multilaterals? How would you if you left with only one of those three categories, who who do you wanna say? I would say for us is for us would say, private sector, multilaterals slash like, I don't know, like, large foundations or other, like, like, third sector organizations. And la last government. I'm I'm sure, like, it's I'm sure not. It is important to to to include government. But to to, like, volatility in the region and all of that, I think we we I think that will be the order that we would give Yep. Yep. We also I do agree with that. So that's good. Also, I don't know, certain stakeholders that I can, like, share. Like, they're still in process in in, like, in process of refining, but we are advancing with a project with like, a full phone with that has El Salvador as the main, like, country in Central America. This was chosen with gas to do, like, their their work with with with El Salvador already. Is we are in the process of defining what organization is gonna work with us in El Salvador, like a local organization. So for the for example, like, we would like to group them Right? Because they already are partners, and they're working in they're working in school meals. Is a a little bit of a a more specific Something about the end is food systems because it's how to improve procurement to school meals. So yeah. Or, like, I'm having the quality of of school meals. You know, it's a little bit more Perfect. And and for for let's just say, theoretically, just so we have an idea, for a follow-up project, you already have a couple of examples in mind, or you're open to whatever? Or you do you have, like, sort of an ideal scenario of magic wants scenario, or you wanna leave that open? We received a couple of of like, we've we approached by a couple of organizations in Santa Monica that are working in food systems that I did I feel I can also give you the names so we can include them in that in that stakeholder mapping that you're doing. But we have not advanced with anyone further than, like, getting to know what the organization is doing and like, it a little bit more like an introduction with those organizations. We do not have currently a project in mind for Central America. We are we we are open to funding one if we find one that are that is like, a good fit for us. Especially, I feel like if it's in the intersection between food systems, school meals, that will be ideal, but it's not exclusive. It can be something more around, like, regenerate by transitioning to regenerative agriculture or around those, like, those lines, that would also be be an option. Not Not exclusively schooling. Ok, perfect. Well, if I can, let me go over what I heard and make sure that we have that clear. So regional focus, you want people from all three countries there. Focus on food systems. Dry corridor is the right geography. Southern Mexico is a question mark. Depends on what we might propose and what you might see about that. Roughly half the budget in terms of scope and scale, but with the line items so that you can have sense of what what those funds would be used for, and then maybe we can you know, clarify things around that. Don't need the semi structured interviews in advance to sort of reduce the workload. Have everyone essentially a one day meeting, with that's choreographed and structured with your your person that's coming on in March to allow for everyone's speaking at once, maybe some breakouts, whatever whatever is, like, the most methodologically efficient and productive to sort of move people based on your experience in New York and elsewhere. We'll come back to you with date and time options that sync well with the vacation and holiday across the three or four countries. Private sector participants, then multilateral foundations, then governments in terms of order of priority. And then you'll share with us a couple of contacts, or company names that you may have received to proposal from that make sure that they get invited to the event. And then there's a a potential project with CAF in in the works in El Salvador might be useful to build on. And that you know, in terms of specific projects, you're overall looking at food systems, but maybe there's something specifically on school meals that might be useful. I think we connected you with, Maria Carmen Nasser from the fundación Terra, via email. We're actually gonna meet with her a little bit later today. She's doing a lot of work in that base. She'd be just think I got that email, and I'm sorry. I'm really behind. My emails were off last, like, last week we were in a we had a group of people here in and and we were doing retreat with them. So it's been it's been a little bit crazy. But I will get to that email. I did see No. Yeah. No. But but is that all is that all right, or is there anything I missed in that summary? No. I I think that that that's it, Mark. I think that's, pretty straightforward. So I I feel like if if it's okay, can can send that offline whenever you have it. We can probably give you some feedback on on offline as well, and then we can probably end with in a couple of weeks. That's okay with everyone. Yep. Maybe I was at the same time Tuesday. March? Sorry? The March? Although, I mean, like, we can continue the conversation offline, but they'll meet in the March. Perfect. How's the same day and time eleven eastern on March 4? Hágalo, Mirena, y la anterior iba de TIC, get to eleven to 11:30. Think thirty minutes might be good. Yep. Okay. Perfect. Perfect. Brigo, ambassador, anyone else? Any questions? Everything would just many thanks for the review and the clear feedback. Yeah. Oh, it's it's it's crystal clear. Thank you. Thank you guys for your time, and and, hopefully, we can get this off the ground, and and have a great convening. Thank you. For sure. For sure. Thanks so much. Natalia. Nice to meet you. Bye bye. Bye. Bye. So I I took good good notes on that. That, if you can take the lead, Rigo, and try to, you know, redo the proposal per their feedback, but it was crystal clear. You know, they're they're thinking small. Right? They're thinking very focused, but, like, it's so funny. I think they're you know, that it took them fifteen minutes to sort of say what I said back in five minutes, is natural. But, like, it's pretty straightforward to me. Like, they wanna one day say thing with private companies and do, like, a blah blah blah, and then, you know, go from there. Half the budget, twenty k's. It's good that we push it up to to fifth to 40. So but it like, this is easy for us now. Like, I mean, the 20 k is gonna be spent on depending on how many people from us go there, it'll be spent on the travel and the hotel and the day, and, like, we may spend $10 on travel, you know, $5 on day of, and $5, you know, for our bills. So nothing nothing major, but also not a heavy lift. Anyone feel differently? No. I mean, so, basically, the one just us to reach out to the companies, pitch them a meeting, making sure that they're there and, that should be doable and it would also be a test of how they view us, you know, the the companies. Yeah. I mean, I know. What do you think? How hard is it to get you know, companies in El Salvador and Honduras to fly. You know? They gotta spend maybe one, two nights, and that money, like, how many can we get from each country? Rigo? Well, hopefully, the companies, they have offices in what they For example, Fundacion Terra have has offices in Guatemala. And other companies may have offices in Guatemala. Maybe they they don't have to fly or and and if they do, I I think it's possible. But a lot has to do with with with their expectations in terms of what is it that Rockefeller is going to you know, propose that they will provide. Just we would need to give a them an idea of what's going to be in the table for them to consider flying out to Guatemala. You know? She because she always you know, I didn't wanna be blunt and ask them, like, what are you what would you be able to propose for a collaboration? Right? May maybe it's something we can speak of it a little bit more casually maybe to to get to to know what the foundation can provide. But but but, yes, they they they're talking about foods and and they're talking about they talked during the first meeting of not providing the fund for the meal per se. But then what is the other thing that they can provide then? Some sort of logistics, or I don't know, some some sort of a grant for a company that that provides the insumos. Sorry for using the word Spanish. For the meals, not pay for the meals directly, but paying for the provide providers. I would like to know more about that. So so we can propose it to a company to consider to fly over to Guatemala. But anyhow but anyhow, it might not be much of a problem for them to go to Guatemala. And get to meet with Rockefeller Foundation. That's the hook. That's the hook, as as ambassador says. Yes. Mhmm. We need to know a little bit more about the hook. Yeah. I mean, I I I don't think they know based on talking to them. I think they just did another off-site. They're one of these scattered foundations. They're just trying to, like you know? They just went from this big strategy and now this narrow strategy. It's just typical of of that world. And I think that's where it's an opportunity for us if we can help define it. They just, you know, trust us as, you know, a good partner to get stuff done. I think we need to really pushing back on them and saying, no. Gotta do it this way. It's gotta be $40. It's gotta be there. Like, they're they're not they're not ready. We have to really just kinda do what they want. And then over time, as the trust builds, we'll we'll we'll try to steer them in a direction, and we'll learn ourselves. And I think this is a good kinda low risk Like, to me, I'd I'd wanna spend twenty hours on this and preparation. You know, we'll spend another five between now and the next meeting. And then hopefully fifteen hours between the next meeting and when we show up on the ground. Then, you know, travel paid for. You know? Again, it's strategic for us, builds everything out, yada yada. But we're not gonna yeah. This is not a big thing, but maybe it leads to a project with a company or it leads to another convenient in another country. They're just like, oh, these guys get stuff done. It's pretty easy. Like, we can do three of these all around. But they've got Columbia locked in, so we're not gonna do anything there. But maybe there's something in Panama on youth or in, you know, whatever. So Yeah. And and and they will be locking down Central America After the convening. So What do you mean locking down Oh, so so what I'm saying is that with our convenings, we're we're gonna support, foundations or institutions to to lock down what what they're already what they're already doing in Bogota. They have an office in Bogota. Right? But then they have a liaison. That they want to assign for us, to us for this project. Then I'm guessing that that person's gonna be the the liaison for the foundation for the Central American partners that we're going to recommend. The mapping and all that. So so it's it's gonna be a little bit of our job done our job here is done. Then we can move forward with other types of convenings for I mean I mean, other convenings for other institutions. Yeah. I mean, she sounds more to me like an event planner, like a convenience person. Like, you know, not not a Central America expert. She's like a convenience expert, which is like she's gonna say, no. Breakout tables, then group meeting, and, like, the and the first row of day. Oh oh, okay. Yeah. I I so, you know, the I guess the thread is if we give them our whole Rolodex and then they work out to everyone directly and then they really cultivate it whatever. But I don't see them as ever taking a really active role based on who we've met so far in Central America. So I'm not worried about it. I'm not worried about like, giving them this for free. Like, again, it's Rockefeller. So anyways Oh, no. But That all makes sense. Well, that Mark, but just just to be clear, I mean, but would that be a good thing if if we after making having this mapping and providing it to them, the stakeholders, and then for them to be advancing. You know? Because they we want we wanna support them to have a collaboration, one or two or three collaborations with any institution. So so my question is, would that be a good thing after we provide this support to them? Well, I mean, if they go and do a project with in the Northern Highlands, is that a good thing for us? No. For yeah. For us and for them, I mean, would would that would would the goal of this project Mhmm. Further would be it be completed? Fulfilled, do you think? Yeah. I mean, I I think they'd be happy. The question is did we give it away for too cheap? Right? Like, we're not gonna have a piece of the the project probably. Right? We're the conveners. So we we gave them a really easy entry point into the region. We gave them a white glove, warm handoff to a company who trusts us, who then came in with rock built they can build out their network. They'll have the invite list. They can do individual follow-up. And they're not gonna give us 10% of whatever the project they give to know, Mariposa, so we're cut out. But it's on mission for us. It's what we're trying to do. It's it's not you know, we can't lose any money on it. We need to make Yeah. Exactly. What we do for PCA Except this time, we're getting money for it. At least we're not yeah. We we have to we have to get paid. Like, now we're not gonna make $10 on this. We're gonna make I'd like to make $5 for PHP PCA overhead. After $5, like, generally speaking with all this stuff, 25%, like, we gotta use that 25% to pay our bills. And everything else is, you know, paid for. And, frankly, like, and that's not even counting our individual cost. Of, like, you know, Rigo's salary, ambassador's salary, the time for call. So I'm gonna be very mathematical about that stuff. But, like, just in the rough numbers, like, again, fifteen hours, mostly Rigo's time. You know? We'll then kinda do a group thing. I didn't ask about the survey. That's why I should've I should forgot about that. I think it's a little too but I think we should pursue the survey, on our own. To, you know, just consider. Again, I'll spend two hours on that. Like, if we can meet with Elmer if there's any cooperative with access to 10,000 s or 5,000 WhatsApps. Maybe we can get 3,000 of them in the dry corridor of farmers directly I mean, I don't I know what the connection is with small farmers and school feeding. I don't know how the school feeding thing works in Guatemala. Like, that food that's sourced locally? Is it is it PlumpyNut from the capital for malnutrition? Is it you know, packaged food systems that they put on a truck and give through the dispensa? Through the school, is it milk and blah blah blah, all that stuff. But we'll hopefully, we'll learn some of that during this, and then we'll see if there's a pathway to do it. Okay. Anything more you need from us, Rigo, and Natasha?  
Me: I will explore some, if you want, some private companies that are in this thesis, I think that this is... I will send you through the chat. This is a profile that maybe you should meet someday, at last, in a conversation. He's Argentina, but Nylus has operations in Mexico. I don't know how knowledge about Central America does he has, but he worked eight years in the IDV And after that, he founded Nilus that started as an NGO, and they jumped as an impact startup, and they work in the decentralization of the food chain and how that increased the opportunities for low income people. Because the of the startup is that poverty is actually more expensive because due to the... Sorry. I don't know how to say this in English. But with the with all the change of the logistic, the traditional logistic, you pay more for food, So they work with social organizations in low income areas from Argentina and Mexico. In order to improve the empowerment of women in those communities as the centralizers of the food And, also, they maybe they have partners like NGOs or schools, so maybe that's an interesting conversation so you can explore that thesis about food systems. But not in Central America, but  
Them: I love it. I was just looking you know, the website's amazing. Like, at a cool that looks like a person we wanna meet. So I'm gonna add him into the  
Me: And he also provided some talks,  
Them: Perfect.  
Me: for investors and NGOs in in Argentina. So maybe it's something that you can explore for any activity. With this institution.  
Them: Okay. That's great. And, Rigo, do you have everything you need from us to Yes. Yes. With a second job? Yes. I I believe so. I I will work on it and and and share it with you. So so we can have comments and observations to know that. Perfect. And then we'll shoot for, like, February 24 to have a second draft done. And that gives us two weeks. Frankly, let's do one week because I think we're gonna forget. We don't if we don't do it more quickly. Okay. Anything else? Perfect. Ari, I got one last question for you. Any other follow-up? I'm gonna meet with Jeffrey, tomorrow to talk about follow-up from Kath. Stanley Motta, Bernardo, the Colabor Capital Folks, Mastercard, on the policy side and on the money. And then anyone else that you want me to send a thank you note to follow-up? I've scanned it on a the cards and all that. Oops. You're on the mute. You're on mute. Jaime, of course. Hyme. Did we send them a note? Or I don't know if we did. I think No. I think let me check. I think I you sent him I mean, we sent him, like, a WhatsApp. Thank you. Right. What about the guy the the guy who is working for the for the setting up the private equity fund that the Yeah. You call it Borough Capital. Yeah. Colin Kirby. He's Yep. He sent me a a side note. I will definitely follow-up with him. I'll probably see him in DC next time I'm there, so definitely that. Guy. I don't know whether he is is worked our the other the Brazilian guy. Probably not. I think we just worked through because, you know and and I guess Bernardo has, like, a Koliboro title and and email and stuff. So now he's, I guess, invested in that. So we'll just focus on him. And then also Jamie Mickelson, did she reach out to you about going to Guatemala next week? No. No. Okay. I mean, I don't you're welcome to join. I I love for you to be there, but I'm always careful with your time. Yeah. Sure. I'm I I remember that I'm gonna be going for three weeks starting Friday. Yeah. And I'll be able to make this meeting with Rockefeller. It will be about 09:30PM my time, so it should be okay. Ah, okay. But, I mean, I I think I think we've shown you off enough. Like, we don't you don't have to join that. That's late. Yeah. That's right. Is gonna talk to me at three PM today if you wanna join. I think she's looking for some maybe some contacts in Guate. Okay. I'll add you as as optional. Yeah. I have I have a lunch at one, so I'm not sure I'll be down by then. Okay. But if I can, I'll point. Okay. Alright. And thank you all. Alright. Alright. Great. Thanks, Natasha. Bye bye.