Meeting Title: Mark, Geoffrey, Nat, Jonathan, Rigo Date: Feb 27 Meeting participants: Mark, Geoffrey Kirkman, Jonathan Nelson, Natasha Ibarra, Samuel Hernandez  Transcript:   Them: Pfizer for access. For capital. Perlouse. E it was one of durante el tiempo. Labarato veon panorama muyamplio. There's the total of records through here. Point Espero. There's a connector. Academia Central de Saroo. It's the startups in version. Maduras con opportun. O estof landing in Mexico. In silicon valley. Sir. Biendo abasikamente are those three clientes who know stakeholders ecosystema in Mexico. Yotro pues la comidata mexicanaque. Ondados no solo Santa Clara or Silicon Valley. Singleton Vienne Monterey is ambenito conforte component Santa Cruz. And tonsis eso squatrondados correspondent and acet conscription del consola the Mexico. Economic. Santa clara. And durantl metabol consolado organic circade Bente. Plus missiones. This varnish, stakeholders, ecosystem. Lamaz Grandev for the scintosatenta Personas. Government officials de los Resnueles Federal. Academia. From over process center Cambrio the digitalisacion as opportunos forgiving along a Silicon Valley. Et cetera. A specific amethyst. In general yosemite special. Los mercadosa capital. Vest one on one's confounders and Mexicoan, et cetera. Capital. As a mercado. There's this. Who position the secret who is at consistema reconnal estoira preparo impresses delta technologia. Identification. And Mexico Como un lugar parasito meromerono laparocopacion. Access. Or yes, the communication Infrastructural logistica e access of Ambien. Universidadiso Central Ecosystema.   Me: Listen, teresa.   Them: General. Logistical no. Which has got job the inovacion locale. Los estados masabanzados espoirea circus baka, california. Chihuahua mentelas. Capital de rigo pero. Delos and muchus aspectosa. They start Nelson Mexico. Even the Sansu Mado Tambien Empress has the technolog here. Komo, Amazon, Google. Parao controspectual. Resto el paisiro. Nueva Status del sol Actua nisiativa Lopez haciendo. Stakeholder. How did your thinking change? Being in mexico. And then being here. Well, Mexico is a lot carrying processes. A lot of the time. Several barriers to become an entrepreneur and start building a company. Here is everything is more straightforward and the ecosystem is ready to support the entrepreneur and absorb some of the risk involved. In Mexico, the entrepreneur has to be the one who is doing the whole risk sometimes, at least in the first stages. And after Series A, the venture capital in Mexico is pretty scarce.   Me: Sometimes. At least the first pages after.   Them: I would say. So even from. The development technology development center that I work for. The technology. It was a huge world deck. So it was very good at building technology while creating technology at a certain point. And after that, when the big tickets are needed, there's a huge bottleneck. Down there pretty well this, Jonathan. There's a lot of risk. Aversion, and I'm sorry. How do you define a big ticket? Well, it depends on the industry, of course. Oil and gas is pretty much capital intensive. So in that sector, I would think that a big ticket would be something around. Well, back then, maybe. $15 million for just one technology. From 15 to maybe 25. But something important also is that some of the missions that we coordinated were about bringing business people from Mexico. To start building awareness on how to learn about the playbook. Becoming an angel investor or a ventured capital investor. So, yeah, that was also a pretty important part to develop this supply of venture capital locally. Because some of the times it is a good match to coin best with lead investor from Silicon Valley, but a follower from Mexico. It would make sense because it is a strong Partnership. Mexico, they understand the market, they understand the pain points that are being addressed through a certain technology. But the Silicon Valley guy typically knows how to. Become a burden for the entrepreneur in terms of reporting, reporting, reporting. I want to see my capital working, but more like I'm enabler. My network is going to be at your disposition to keep on scaling. So that's also a big pain point over there. This type of collaboration typically is strong in that. I can jump in or. Sorry. Go ahead. Jonathan. On the office. So the founder that wants to raise money and has this great idea, according to them, always. And they want to sit with Anderson Horowitz. And you have that network. How did you handle the flow and how did that office. You can't just take everyone. There, right? Like you could do a meeting a day. So how did you handle that? And that functions clear. But by the way, the whole ecosystem, I think, is really interesting. You must have learned a ton in all directions. And does that office still exist? Or the function of what you did in that consulate office, does that still exist? And if you were running the consulate, Console General's strategy. The governor of Mexico. Would you double it? Triple it? Zero it out. How was the experience? How do you see that? As strategic for the government of Mexico. I definitely will double or triple the capacity because the return on investment, it would be huge. Unfortunately, that position is no longer being carried out at the consulate. Right now, that position is vacant. Which is a total shame. There's another Mexican consulate in San Francisco. They have been actively also involved with the ecosystem, and at least they have had this continuity. So there's also a strong network over there, connecting Mexican ecosystem and San Francisco. If they can't come to where you were, then where do those founders go? They just use their normal network. They call Jonathan, they call anyone else they know. There's just not a systematic approach. Right. Exactly. Informal. Informal channels. I would say that there are a couple of companies constantly. Well, I know a couple, but should be more bringing business people from Mexico to the Valley. But the idea is to they are not founders, but they are like traditional family companies in Mexico. And it is just about to learn about innovation and maybe start being LPS for a small fund that's their main target. I don't see a lot of very good follow up on getting them really with a stronghold doing things. For the sake of the bridge and connecting the ecosystems. But those kind of efforts are in place. Nothing formally if you had a magic one. Sam and you were going to open an office for Go. In silicon valley. What are the top three things that you would do? We're like, what would be your. What would be your. Like, oh, my God, I want a pony. This is what I think Cash could do and would just be amazing. It would dominate. Well, first of all, I will start. Engaging with the low hanging fruit of potential partners that might be interested in collaborating with that effort here in the Valley. So I would reach out the big seven, of course, but another companies that are strong awareness of the potential of the rest of the continent. And from the perspective of the I would also elaboration the Sisters series program. That some of the local cities have in place. That's also strong. And. I would rely on those type of collaborations, trying to expand those channels a little further. Well start also putting together all the efforts that are being done to connect the ecosystems and to understand how we can deliver value to the whole ecosystem and stakeholders. In order to put this platform in service for everyone. To start bringing, maybe bringing founders, cohorts of founders here from Central Americas I would engage with those accelerators in Central Americas and BC Funds. To start spreading the world about. Maybe doing demo days here with docs from people from the Valley. Around AI and how to become AI native. They would be like my first steps. What should they not do? What would be the nightmare scenario? To bring founders that are not ready, not ready for the Valley. Because doing that could maybe give the wrong image that the ecosystems are like, there's a big gap. Technologically and innovation speaking. So yeah. I would bring the ones that are building something aligned with what we see here. But maybe also building awareness here that there are a lot of problems, that there are no problems here in the valley. They have been sold for years. Or never became never problems. But to understand how those barriers can be. Addressing those issues could be a huge way to promote economical development in the region. That would be a nightmare to bring the wrong founders here and to rely on maybe government to bet the founders so they can come here. You need very trained eye to really understand what's the development and what's a PowerPoint without any technology. So, yeah, that would be a huge mistake, I would say. Would you be an entrepreneur here? For how long would you have the entrepreneurs here and how long would you have them here, and how long would you have, like, people who are training to be investors here? I mean, being really cost effective. I would start maybe with an online acceleration program. With doing everything on Zoom and maybe having the demo day here and to stay. I would say maybe two or three weeks at least. Building a good agenda and also giving them the opportunity to engage with a lot in a lot of networking