Meeting Title: Venture capital insights for Latin American ecosystem development
Date: Mar 9


Transcript:
 
Them: Ah, vaya, vaya, sí. Ok, ok. Mister Walker, Hello. Hello. Hi there. How are you, sir? Doing great. How are you all? Doing delightful. I think we have a quorum. Looks like it. Excellent. So, Peter, let me give you a little context on what we're doing and why we can go around and do a a round of intros. And so we are partnership for The Americas. Which is a version two point o, a partnership for Central America, Partnership for Central America was a public private partner public private that reported directly to Kamala Harris, And the mandate was root causes of immigration, And so the goal was improve Central America's economy. A crack four person team led by miss Mark Lopez and a bunch of advisers that he was able to put together. Got about 5 or $6,000,000,000 in commitments to new business and to Central America in just a couple years. No longer have quite the political poll. That we used to after the government's changes. But, our kind of goal is growing the economy of Latin America. We're structured as a nonprofit. We have been asked by cafcalf.com, which is one of the largest development banks in the world. Probably second after IFC. Finance commission, probably yeah. And they wanna figure out do we do venture in small countries across Latin America? Like, Brazil, Mexico seem to be doing pretty well, but the rest of the region is kind of lagging. And so we're doing a study on that. And we also will be evaluating when we get a full dataset, fund that they've been running kind of on a haphazard fashion. The last, twenty years. But, our goal as well has just been to kind of fill the team's brain full of venture, best practices, what's going on in the kind of latest trends, as well as you know, your take since you have probably the best data in the business right now, and are leader I thought that it would be good to just to have a conversation with you. My guess is it probably won't go the full hour, because Mark and Jeffrey have been really busy. But, wanted to hand that off. Maybe we do a round of intros, and then we'll let you kinda take it away, and we'll just do a q and a informally. See where the conversation takes us. Mark, take it away, sir. Great. Thanks. Twenty years in in government related things in Washington. Now based in New York. Large government bureaucracies, political stuff on the house and the senate, and then represented The US at the Inter American Development Bank on the board of directors. And then six years of startups in New York, and then back kinda doing a mix of various things related to that. Mister Kirkman. Hi, Peter. I I spent most of my career in academia. I at Harvard and Brown universities doing a variety of things as a researcher, a teacher, and a fundraiser, globally. So I've I've worked in about 60 countries around the world. Looking at all sorts of different industries But started really when the Internet was young, and I and I was too. I was, I was a lead proponent of, trying to harness the Internet for, in developing countries for different different sorts of economic, social, values. So now I find that things come full circle, and I'm back working in Latin America, trying to figure out how to how to really jump start the economies with AI and and thinking about VC in this case. La ITL sí, por rico, coge. Okay. Sorry. Nice to meet you, Peter. I come from the develop development world and cooperation world as well. I work with NGOs with the Millennium Challenge Corporation from DC. I've, also worked, with the multi lateral development bank. I've worked around the MDBs the, you know, DFIs for development and and also for private sector. And I and I recently managed the fund, the $50,000,000 fund that was, it's proceeds, its, were destined for technical cooperation. So feasibility studies in that we would use later to finance from the NDB to those projects. So nice to meet you, Pierre. Wonderful. Nice to meet you too. Happy.  
Me: Hi. Be there. Nice talking to you. I'm based in Córdoba, Argentina. And I'm the COO of HF Capital, de adviser of consulting firm of Jonathan. And, also, I'm a university professor. I lead an incubator. And in the past, I was platform manager in venture capital.  
Them: Wonderful. Mister Walker, who are you, sir? What the hell are you? Where who are you, and and why do we care? Well, I'm not sure you should, but I'm Peter. I run the insights team at Carta. Carta is, the biggest equity management platform in the world for private companies. So that's 60 some thousand companies mostly in The US. Mostly seeking venture capital, use us to manage their cap tables. So we help them issue equity to advisors, investors, employees, etcetera. The other side of the business is fund administration for private capital funds. That's increasingly a wide diversity of private capital funds, but bread and butter is venture, especially here in The US. We have about 3,000 US venture funds, so more than half of every US venture fund uses Carta. Run their back office, so general ledger, portfolio valuations, audit tax, all the stuff that is not that fun about being an investor. We help you manage so that you can, get back to doing what what you love, which is investing into to new entrepreneurs. So and then my role within that is effectively a sort of a public researcher across startups. So I do a lot of big where's the market going kind of thinking, and then I also help our data teams internally and our product teams, like, use data better in the in the product itself. So where are the market's going? What are what are you kind of like, what's the the state of the union right now? Yeah. Are we I guess, clarifying question. How much is it how useful is it for you all if I you know, keep most of the commentary to The US market? I obviously have opinions about what's going on globally, but our data is fairly US US focused at the moment. That's cool. And then opinions on international is also welcome. Okay. Great. Where's the market going? We're in a really tricky place. Venture is venture capital as a term of art. Is basically it's become at least two different markets. If not more than that. And term venture capital now covers such a broad span of things that it's it's using it's losing its utility. Excuse me. What's happening on the one end is sort of the consensus circle of things. So this is 25 to a 100 companies that agglomerate to themselves most of the venture cap that is being spent, if you can even call it VC anymore. They're names that you're all familiar with. Private companies have stayed private longer and gotten much bigger in the private markets, which strips that valuation increase away from the public, sphere and retail investors And there's just a lot of hype. Like, AI is it's not a it's not a bubble in the traditional sense in that there are well, it could be. It could turn out to be a financial bubble for sure. But it's not the same thing as sort of the crypto wave was in '21 or anything like that. Like, there are real fundamental changes happening to the way that technology companies are being built. That still doesn't mean that we're not in for some really rough times. In the coming year or so. If some of these projections don't turn out to be true and people find that their capital is being spent in ways they don't want them to. If you're not in that circle, if you're not some hyped AI company, it's actually a pretty difficult time to fundraise. It's not an it feels like it's super easy, and there's so much capital. But outside of that, golden circle, it's a it is very tricky right now. Like, how long do you have a sense? And I don't know. But do you have a sense of how long it's taking companies to, like, raise seed a b plus Yep. For sure. We track this very closely. Median amount of time between a seed round and a series a round right now in The US is just over two years. That's up from one and a half years, call it three or four years ago. And seventy fifth percentile, so the top quarter in terms of length of time is well over three years. So it used to be that the advice mini founders would get from VCs would be, you're gonna fundraise every eighteen to twenty four months. I think that is, optimistic these days. But, of course, then you also have the other end of the barbell where I think ramp raised four times in 2025. And some of that was so they could get secondary for their employees, but at least two of those fundraisers were real fundraisers that bringing capital into the business. So, again, all these patterns sort of repeat themselves you are in the hype circle, if you are in the attention of demand, you can really fundraise and do things that you've, very rarely been able to do. These days. It is a very it's a great time if you are, like, part of that special circle. Right now. Like, how how large like, I'm guessing the special circle is AI, but, like, A lot of it. What percentage of venture is going to, like, Golden Circle 25 and then of smaller ish upcoming AI versus rest of market? It really isn't like, you you you basically have to talk about, do you include OpenAI and Anthropic in the venture capital circle, or don't you? Because if you do, then more like, OpenAI just raised a round that will eclipse at least it will be at least 50% of all the venture capital raised. In any other year, it would have been at least 50%. So that is a like, does that count really effectively? If you don't count it, which I am increasingly thinking you because mainly because the capital sources are not the 110,000,000,000 raised by OpenAI was not on offer to the rest of Venture Capital and would have been spent there otherwise had OpenAI not been in existence. Just wouldn't have been spent. So it's it's not the same thing as to say this is, crowding out other investment on that end. AR Do you know where they raised from? My guess is massive institutionals, probably wealth funds, that sort of stuff. SoftBank, Amazon, NVIDIA, etcetera, each contributed about $30,000,000,000. So Amazon's not putting $30,000,000,000 to work in the seed stage. If if OpenAI didn't exist. So in terms of our data, it's about 44¢ of every dollar that we saw. On the platform last year went to an AI company. That's up at least double from where it was in 2022. So it is the dominant theme and it is increasingly taking over basically most of I'd say it's over half and closer to 65% of software There is a little bit of a rotation some VCs out of software. Into hardware, biotech, energy, and other deep tech and metal sciences. I gotta be honest. I don't think that most v have any right to win in those spaces. And I caution founders often that you don't wanna be the very first hardware investment that the VC fund has ever done. Because they're probably not gonna be that useful to you. And there are a lot of VCs these days who are doing their first hardware investment ever. Interesting. Like, how large like, out of the number, the universe of venture capital, like, how large is that? Non software piece and how large how how is that growing? Today, it's probably 65% software, 35% everything else. But, increasingly, I would be shocked if that wasn't closer to fifty fifty by the, like, 2027 or so. There's just a ton of debate amongst everyone in venture about which of these software businesses have any right to exist in a world where you can code them so quickly. To say that vibe coded company or vibe coded applications will somehow negate the need for outside software. I don't think that most people believe that, but it's it is a big question on margin compression as you're seeing in the public markets. Like, what is the The SaaS the SaaS apocalypse. Of thing. Right? They're like, why why buy HubSpot if I can just make it myself? Then that's, like, you see that as a real thing. I don't see that as I'm not that worried that every single company is going to vibe code their own HubSpot. I am worried that HubSpot itself has no pricing power left. And there will be some people who come in with a completely different cost structure and offer you 80% of HubSpot for one tenth of cost. And that's and they can do that because their business is not denominated by thousands and thousands of headcount. I have a team of five. Right? And so that to me is a worry. Also just seeing mean, there's always a premium for growth in these markets, but there is a massive premium for growth right now. Where again, if you what's the way to get into that golden circle if you didn't, you know, spin out of OpenAI or you're not well known name, it's grow incredibly fast. And that is the thing that all venture investors want. That is the thing that increasingly public markets want even more than profitability. It's it it just seems like this the has gotten spun up. The hamster wheel is now really flying, and you either gotta run it sprint to keep up, or you're gonna get left behind. What is what is that range of, like, the top 25 percentile of companies that are like, oh my gosh. You're growing so fast. Oh my god. Take my money. I mean, the the bar center is anthropic. The I don't know if I I literally am unsure of any other example in capitalism where someone has 10 x from a million dollars four years in a row. If they if they 10 x again from about 11,000,000,000 at the beginning of this year to all 100. Like, that's never been done. It is absolutely wild. So that is that is what grate looks like. That doesn't mean that venture investors are so silly as to expect 10 x's from all of their underlying port codes. I don't think they're going or I hope they're not going into those meetings that way. It does mean that the triple triple double double double, which was the old sort of cloud era great 300% growth in year one, 300% growth in year two. Then 200% the next three years. That is just pretty good. It's not terrible or anything, but it's not like, that's not getting and Horowitz out of bed these days. Smaller VCs need different things, and I totally understand that. But if you're trying to play Mega Fund level and get the and be in, a real of venture is not good anymore. I no comment as to whether or not which one of those is gonna produce better fund returns. I have my own thoughts about that, but it's, yeah. Grow grow really fast. Is is everyone's, admonition. Concentration of capital in terms of geographically? Like, what's the spread across The US and globally if you have some of those numbers? Mean, The US is it's a fractal pattern. It all mirrors itself, and it all resolves back down to the bay. In our data, the Bay Area is taking something like 40¢ of every dollar invested in The US venture capital Look at other data sources, it's maybe slightly higher, slightly lower, but I think that's a good route. But if you look globally, the Bay Area itself is bigger than the next nine cities combined. Including US and global venture capital cities. So it is a story of concentration, That isn't that different, though. It's always been concentrated in the Bay. Maybe the biggest rounds are more concentrated here than ever before. But it that's not, like, a massive, massive change from previously. Again, it's just do you include OpenAI? And Anthropic in the fundraising data, or don't you? And if you choose to not include it, things get a little bit more equitable. But the Bay Area is definitely subject to its own dynamics. And a lot of the talk around startups is predicated on Bay Area fundraising. It's those are the biggest numbers, so we just talk about them the most. Can you talk about, like, how many funds operate at, like, the Golden Circle, the middle, and then kind of at the base of the pyramid. I mean, there are thousands and thousands of US venture fund I don't know. 6,000 ish? Maybe maybe even more depending on whether you count some, like, angel syndicates and different fund structures. So there are so many venture funds. Who can play in the mega fund category You can just go and look at which funds have raised $1,000,000,000 or more in the last two years. It's not a very long list. It's 15 maybe. Maybe. And, really, within that, there are, like, Andreessen, Sequoia, general catalyst, gap, or Thrive Founders Fund. GAP. Other people who are big funds that are kinda losing their way a little bit. And then there's an explosion of emerging managers. And the emerging manager class is where a lot of the alpha and venture will come from. Like, that's where the biggest multiples will be found for sure. But it's also I think sometimes emerging managers get very mad at LPs for giving money to the mega funds because they're like, you 10 x your money there. It doesn't make any sense. And then the LPs very rightly look down at the emerging managers, they go, yes. But I have to evaluate 3,000 of you. In order to pick the right six or seven managers. So my loss ratio in emerging is going to be much higher. And I have to be in the top 5% for it to make sense. Top 10% maybe. Top 25%? Not worth it. Usually. I there's a lot of people who talk about venture capital as though the top quartile venture capital is always good. The top quartile venture capital usually does not beat the S and P. And what is the top 5% usually do? Top 5%, you're in you're golden. That's four x's, five x's. Net, your money. The question is how long does it take? So venture funds used to be a ten year fund life cycle. Now I think most funds started twelve, and they talk about fourteen or fifteen. Stripe is 17 years old. Yeah. And you can get money out along the way for sure. But, if you're predicating yourself on the old fund model, like, used to be work backwards from what they think you would need on an IRR basis to beat the public markets. And you do some math, and you say, okay. 12% a year or so. Okay. What does that mean when you translate it out over ten years? Blah blah blah blah blah. Three x net EPI. That three x does not make sense to me in a world where the cash stays private for fifteen years. It now needs to be four x for you to beat the S and P. The the proposition of venture has gotten harder as more and more money has crowded into it because capital tends to erode returns on an average basis. So I'm painting a bit of a doom and gloom picture here. Like, we're supposed to be support Venture the most, and we do. But I gotta be honest, If I'm a net new LP thinking about con you know, funding venture funds for the first time, I'm pretty nervous about that. Because the chances that I underperformed the public markets are quite strong. How long is it taking? You and I had a conversation about this a couple of months ago. How long does it take in venture funds to actually raise their next fund? Yeah. It's really hard to say. Okay. My instinct is that it's typically around a year plus from the moment they start fundraising. But knowing what when they actually start fundraising is very hard. Because there's a lot of informal conversations and such. So that's my instinct, but I'm sure that I'm sure that's wrong in some ways. Etcetera. What's your live and opinions on international? I think I think the biggest problem with venture is not geography. It's capital. So I think the venture strategy can work across the entire world in most markets as long as the capital is right sized to the opportunity. And that is the biggest thing. Because as soon as something works, the tendency is to flood it with capital, and by definition, that chases away returns. So actually think that maybe there's a chance that you might see venture funds in Europe and elsewhere out perform venture funds in America in the next ten years. Simply not on an absolute money generated basis by a long shot, but on a multiples basis. If they keep that capital constrained. The other note is that the exit environment in other ecosystems is much is very, very different than in America. I was going to say much worse, but to be honest, the exit environment in America is not that great right now in terms of IPOs, so maybe not. It's just you you have to understand, like, what is the ultimate TAM? Is this company gonna have to go to The States or or bigger markets in order to become a a real outperformer for your fund? That kind of thing. When I talk to founders around the world, there's a group of them that are completely AGI pilled and wanna come to San Francisco tomorrow. And then there's a group of them that are really allergic to San Francisco, and wanna do their own thing or build in their local ecosystem or think that they're gonna build a much better company if they're not in the hype cycle. And I can see the I can see the the value in both approaches, but it's, I kinda find that founders, like, there's a very barbell either love it or hate it kinda thing. Part of our mandate is helping cash become a better limited partner. And if you're actually $5,060,000,000,000 dollar AUM development bank, and you're gonna start doing LP off your balance sheet. Some years that might be 7 figures, some years that might be, you know, low mid eights. How would you actually design an LP strategy, specifically if you're targeting the small countries in the region? Where there's really little to no ecosystem Yeah. It's really the first thing that I'm asking myself is, what is my information advantage or disadvantage here? So do I feel confident that I know all of the managers that I need to know. In an ecosystem with less capital, winning those managers is often not the hardest part. It's knowing them, but I do think that there's a there's a a strong likelihood that if my sourcing is not really, really good, I'm gonna miss the top five to 10% of every batch, that's the that's the part that where the returns really come from. The other thing that I would be dead set on doing is if I'm committed to this strategy, I am cost averaging my entry into venture every single year. I am not I'm trying not to change my investment strategy based on liquidity, and that is really tough. Really, really tough. In a period where liquidity has been very low. Part of the reason why there's fewer LPs in venture today is that many of the earlier LPs are just waiting around for some liquidity from those earlier funds. They can reinvest it. If I'm if I'm lucky and not in a position where that matters to me, then I'm I'm trying to be I'm trying to like, make my contribution to the asset class basically identical year by year. And I'm I'm thinking about fund to funds as a strategy. The the layer the fee layer doesn't help. But if can learn from them, if there's coinvestment opportunities that they feel are really good, like, that that's maybe part of the bucket that I'd be. Be exploring. Interesting. Would you go a handful of larger bets, or would you go a larger number small bets? I would go almost always with a larger number of small bets. With the caveat that being a part of the platform funds has advantages. Especially if I'm a new LP in an ecosystem. It may be worth being part of the platform funds simply to see how they run. And what they are doing and they are focused on, who their coinvestors are. Like, you know, LPs typically don't have trouble getting into the right rooms if they want to, if they're if they, you know, have the capital for it. But it's it's more like a learning from them. I would you know, if you're if you're modeling this out and saying, I need a I need a minimum of a three x or a four x from Venture to make this worth my while, then I think you you kinda have to commit more money to the smaller funds. The mega funds are gonna have a real, real tough time doing it. I'm sure there are one or two mega funds that proved me wrong, but it's tough to tough to figure those out. And Mark and Jeffrey, I'm I'm kinda monopolizing the conversation. Rigo, do you guys have questions? Feel free to kind of chime in. Well, one of the I I jumped in with one. Oops. Sorry. I I think No. No. Sorry. I had to I had to grab a call, but I you know, I think it strikes me that as we're looking to help the region attract bigger U. S. Investors, given that those investors are highly highly focused on AI, If we go try to sell them anything but that, Mhmm. It's just getting twice as much hard work for us. So, like, I it hadn't occurred to me that that almost the the challenge for the region in the tech space, obviously, is that if you're if it's not AI enabled, like, what business do we have? Like, it's a hard enough sell anyways. Right? Like, most of the AI money is gonna wanna be in, like, you know, the the 10 x kind of types of businesses in The US, and so we should sort of focus on that. I guess I wonder, like, after that, like, after AI, what are the kinds of you know, where that the two two two three three, whatever. And what are those companies what are those sectors that maybe what what does that look like at least in The US? Yeah. I mean, it's still I'll I'll be quite honest. It's still denominated by AI software companies, but there's a ton of other mix there. Biotech, energy, a lot of robotics these days. Hardware of various sources. Consumer, I'd say, has fallen off a little bit, but there's still a pretty healthy consumer space. Fintech, crypto crypto has really gone down. But the it kinda feels like the crypto builders are actually building real things now instead of whatever the hell they were building in 2021. So that's cool. There there's a number of different, different things that that sort of hold true across those sectors. I I'll just be honest, though. I have a lot of I have a lot a lot of VCs here in San Francisco. Who have not even heard a non AI pitch in two years. I mean, they are they are just they do not want it. And if you come to them, you're building a software company, and you are not using AI in some way, shape, or form, you better have a damn good reason why. Because that is not the is not the current meta around things. Now it may be that you're using AI to build your business, but the product itself is not predominantly dedicated to AI. I think that's okay. But to have avoided these tools entirely, it's gonna be a really tough sell. Would you recommend companies that start I start a software company in Guatemala. I'm focused on regional at TAM. Would you actually suggest opening an office in the Bay Area just to start building those relationships? No. Or I wouldn't I would suggest opening an office in The States when you are starting to sell to The States. So I'm much more concerned in terms of office and things like that of where your consumers are. You can always fly to the Bay. You know, once a quarter and meet investors. That's not hard. You don't need an office here to fundraise. From here. You should know them for sure. You you should buy some plane tickets, but I wouldn't open an office unless you are doing unless you're meeting with customers most of the time. But you would recommend that they come to the Bay Area Hundred percent. Couple of times a year just to schmooze, get to know people. 100%. I it is I don't think it's too far to say that the the golf and this is this doesn't just to founders in LatAm or founders in Europe. It applies to founders in Dallas. And founders in Charlotte. Like, it's just different here. Like, experiencing it, you don't have to live here. But you to know, like, what investors are thinking about here, really does help you. Even if what what it helps you do is to go, okay. Those are not my people. Well, I'll stick to somewhere else. But to understand, like, what the kinds of folks here are looking for, kinds of bets that they're making, I mean, really, when you boil it down, Andresin and others like them have made a very clear bet and the bet is venture exits are going to be between five and ten times bigger than they ever have been. It's the only way their math makes sense. I mean, if you look at OpenAI, maybe that's true. We've never had a trillion dollar private company. Now we have maybe two of them. That's completely wild. So maybe that vision of the future is right, but the kind of thing they're betting on. They're the ambition is very, very, very strong. One of the last questions I had just because I know that everybody's kind of pretty busy today. But, if you were going to grow so the weird thing about this LP is that oh, am I frozen? Okay. The weird thing about this LP is they care less about and they care more about developing managers and developing ecosystem. In that lens, how would they be a good LP and how could they best help develop that GP talent? Mhmm. That's a great question. I mean, developing new or unique GP talent I mean, I still think you can't be you can't be ignorant or, like, nonplussed by returns. Right? You don't wanna be like a a platform from which returns don't matter because the best GPUs we're gonna are going to perform and have strong returns. I think that there is a role for someone to bring in best practices around what it means to start and build emerging manager funds and firms And an LP in an ecosystem that doesn't have very many LPs is an anchor. Really, really helps. The first thing that they can do now that I'm really thinking about it is be an anchor check. And be a supportive anchor check. There are many, many, many LPs who will never anchor a fund, and they won't invest first. Wait until somebody else invests, and then they'll come in, like, most LPs wanna be the last check into a fund. If this LP was willing to be the first check into a fund and make that check substantial, that is a massive help. To many, many GPs. And may bring GPs off the sidelines. The other thing that I would note is that an LP who really cares about generating a new class of GPS and ecosystems they're going to be this is maybe counterintuitive. They're going to be a little bit they're gonna give, like, strong words of feedback to their GPs, especially around strategy drift. I cannot tell you the number of GPS that I know who are basically, without saying it, just investing in the big thing. That they think they can get markups on. If this LP really wants to build, like, focused local ecosystems that are self perpetuating. Then investing in GPUs who have a very specific strategy and then holding them to that strategy. Pointing out when like, this investment doesn't match your thesis. It's okay to do once or twice, but 25% of the portfolio, 40% of the portfolio that's not on on theme, is not what we invested into, and that'll set themselves up for the discipline that takes to raise from, like, US venture funds of funds and and big institutions and all that kind of stuff. How how big of a piece do you think it is for that anchor to open doors to other LPs? And to network with other LPs? It's a huge thing. It's it's massive. I know what the, the right words for it are, but there's there's always, always, always a place in the ecosystem for an LP who is willing to sort of use their brand to help bring along the brand of the GPS into which they're investing. It's you know, sometimes those GPS have really good relationships. Locally, but they need that LP to expand them to different geographies that they're not into or different parts of the LP ecosystem. Sometimes it's much more about cross LP types So I know a number of GPS who have pretty strong relationships with family offices but just can't get a callback from institutions. Or vice versa. So, like, being a cross pollinator between different classes of LPs can be very, very helpful. Usually, what happens in a venture fund is your first fund is raised with a lot of high net worth individuals. And then you go through this really messy process of kinda leaving them behind a little bit. Getting more family offices and institutions. And that that crossover is never there's always a lot of tricky conversations. So I think a big institution LP can be helpful there too. Interesting. What's helpful for you? In this space, we are going to be in Latin America. We are helping grow the ecosystem. We wanna grow the economy. What piece of that can be used to help card out To be honest, you know, it's the goal of Carta is to be the backbone of every private fund. So I'd you wanna be a little circumspect here because I'm not exactly sure where our offering sits. We we do have a bunch of cap table customers in Latin America. We have fewer funds, although we do manage them. But the things that are helpful for me personally is bring me research questions. Like, as you have questions that pop up or things that people are arguing about and you're like, no one has really good data on this, bring those to me. Because if I don't if I have data, I'll share it. But if I don't have data, it's a nice spur to know these are the questions that actual practitioners are thinking about because that's a kinda my whole job is to go and find interesting questions to answer. Awesome. Mark, Jeffrey, Rigo, Matt? Grateful, Peter. Thank you. I'm good. Thank you very much, Peter. Really interesting everything. Of course, y'all. Great to meet you. Always a delay, mister and thank you so much. For your time. And keep doing the Lord's work, man. Until next time, y'all. Cheers. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Bye. You guys have a second to stick on? Got a second? Check, anyways, thank you for all these meetings, Jonathan. They're amazing. But this is just random geek out. Remember, we talked about underconnected, the concept of underconnected people. So they're technically in the cell phone range, but they can't they can't afford to pay for the plan. So you need to overlay population, poverty, cell phone map coverage. And so cities have technical coverage, but there's a lot of poor people, they can't pay. So these are the underconnected. The people fall through. So you say, like, LatAmir is, like, 95%. There's more cell phones than Latin America than there are people. So is everyone connected? Jeffrey and I did this stuff twenty twenty five years ago. No. Everyone's not connected. 48,000,000 people unconnected, 227,000,000 people underconnected, assumptions over here on sort of different kind of pieces. Right? So you can play with these graphs. And then, you know, the raw data here and by region, subreg I've been looking for this map for two years, and wanted to create it, and Claude did it in fifteen minutes. This is ours. So you've just built that and Claude? I just know it while we were talking. Yeah. While I was on the call. Just built that in Claude. Like, I I had a one paragraph prompt, and it done. And I have the raw data and all this other stuff. Like, I mean, this can go on our website tomorrow. It's like, we're the only ones that are telling you the truth about the interconnected people. Now I have no idea. This is a problem with Claude. Have no idea what's behind this. I don't know what's like, what what actual data, but, like, it says up here, I TU, GSMA, World Bank, Ed Clack, National Regulators, like, that's ever I bet you this is better than two teams of 10 researchers for six months. Right? Like, this is really hard stuff to do, and AI is just like, I mean, I know. I'm speechless by this stuff. No. Dude, I If you're interest in getting a webmaster that can actually help you spin some of this stuff up, and actually attach it to our website. I got a guy in Ecuador. He charges me a $110 a $110 a year. That's amazing. Yes. I think I think so. I mean, I I also want Andrea's not here, but she she does some coding. I think I don't know where this all resides. Like, don't know. Did put the link in But, yes, if she can't figure it out, I wanna give her a chat, but, then you know, we could certainly do this. But this is the kind of back to the concepts of, like, we could produce you know, six or seven research documents. So a couple of others I thought about of remember that, like, exit to reinvest? Like, the reason why we wanna fix exits is not to make 12 tech bros It's because the historical reference of the exits says that you're building these the guy said it today, didn't he? Mafia? Right? Mhmm. You get one guy that pops out big. He doesn't take all his to Florida. He takes you know, he buys a nice house on the beach, but then there's a chunk that always stays local. So that's why we want the Hunter and unicorns because they're gonna naturally invest, there's gonna be, like, you know, sticky capital that stays home because they like the food better. Right? The the capital likes the food better. So, I mean, there's a two pager on that. Jeffrey's middle middle missing middle question. There's a two pager on that. I'm I'm finding we're, like, these really specific I mean, the thing the guy just said, like, you know, two pager on, like, what sectors should you invest? Should should, like, outside investors invest in Latin America? Well, based on what's happening in The US today, if we're not doing AI, you're not gonna get a meeting. Like, that's an insight. Right? And there was another one The know, we can call them discussion papers or something like that. Well, they're definitely I mean, they're the the themes are emerging big time. Like, the number of things that we keep hearing from different people in different countries and different from different vantage points. Can you send that prompt the prompt you used to create that thing around? I'm just gonna see And now it's just regular cloud? Well, I have the I I have the $100 a month version now. Oh. Because I kept hitting the limit. I've been very engaged. My limit the other day. Yeah. Yeah. And so I kept kicking me. I was like, okay. I gotta move faster. I'll stick it in the in the same thing. So I just put it in there, and then I gave one reference stock, which I all produced on AI that was on our network. That was also, do a second. Well, I have a I have a dumb question that wanted to ask Peter, but it was too dumb to ask. I'll ask you guys. So there is 6,000 venture funds in The US. And it sounds to me that I mean, as someone who's new to this whole scene, like, there are very few like, very few that are actually kicked killing it. Right? We're making so much money and getting so much like, so why do all these funds exist now if they're not making any money and they're not beating the market? Is it just because they're lifestyle? Like, they're just paying out salaries and it's just a way to fund stuff, and there's no expectation that they're I mean, that's a lot of different funds. And if if the if the message from that is or the last one from that is, look going to Central America, to your point, Jonathan, which was a really my which was something I was gonna ask, is calf doesn't isn't care about maximizing its it's not trying to be Sequoia or injury sin or whatever. They're trying to juice the market, right, and and trying to create ecosystems and create more companies. And, you know, I think their expectations for for, you know, profits are are can't be as high. But but what this is like, the whole VC overall market seems like it's a it's it's like a it's a dud if it's if no one's actually if their returns, like, suck. Right? And so the the industry's returns as a whole tend to suck. 60% of the venture funds don't the initial investment. About 30% do manage to return one, two, maybe three x over ten or twelve years. But the 5% can 10 x your investment. And so that's what you know? And if you look across the entire spectrum, you know, if I'm gonna build an LP strategy, I probably want access to the asset class just because I want it to be diversified and just because this is a return profile today, doesn't mean it's gonna be return profile in ten or fifteen years. And I'm betting ten or fifteen years A lot of the smaller funds tend to be people who got rich, like, every IPO probably spins up anywhere between 10 to 30 venture funds. Is my guess. And a venture fund is me and a handful of my mates. Chipping in, and we're starting to invest $5,000,000. Or 10,000,000 You know, every IPO generates about 500 to a thousand new millionaires. And what do those people wanna do? A lot of them wanna be venture capital investors. Some of them can raise funds too, Funds three tends to be a bit harder just because you need to get you know, larger checks on board. So, yeah, a lot of these are people wealthy ish, can get together with a couple of friends, and raise a fund and start writing checks, and a lot of them die. You know, I ran an accelerator and a venture fund. I did not have great return profile. My investment thesis was companies that make a lot of revenue and underrepresented founders. And it was really hard for them to raise follow on rates, follow on funding. And so a lot of those companies ended up dying. Half of my portfolio was women, Hispanic, or black founders. As compared to, like, one to 3% for each one of those categories. So that is what it is, but worst case scenario as well is you'll learn a ton. Yeah. I mean so, I mean, the case is for the for the countries we're looking at, which I'll say that, you know, the markets are too small. The comp you know, the the companies themselves can't can't grow big enough to to match US expectations. But there's a value here to providing capital in the system. Right? I mean, there's a certain there's just a lack of liquidity, it seems to me, that so there's this so it's almost like we have to get rid of the profit incentive and just say, we just need more money in the system to fund more companies and see most of them are gonna fail, and but that's okay. We're not you know, occasionally, there'll be a, you know, what, a unicorn. But but we're we seem like there's a disconnect here between, like, there's an apples and oranges question here of, like, what's the ultimate goal here? And so and what the ultimate goal of is too. So I I'm finding I'm finding it's fascinating because I I have not thought about in this way, and these are great people. Each of those meetings today, like, was a different Mhmm. You know, piece of the elephant that we're all feeling, I guess. But, And one of the reasons I'm passionate about this is it's foreign direct investment. Yeah. You know? And you're creating every entrepreneur and every early employee in one of these startups it's the equivalent of a master's degree. Like an MBA. Because you work your ass off, you gotta build a product, you gotta talk to customers, you gotta do sales, you gotta raise money, money. Like and you can't teach these skills in school. And so every venture fund that makes 50 investments, they probably just trained a 100 entrepreneurs. We're case scenario, they become really good employees at a larger tech company. Best case scenario, they become serial entrepreneurs and continue doing If I'm an entrepreneur, if I can do 10 companies over twenty years, chances are I'll probably get fucking money. And by that, the definition is have enough money in the bank where if someone says, I don't have you to do this, you can tell him, hey. Screw off. Hey. And and that's kind of the goal of the entrepreneur The venture capitalist is kind of doing the same sort of thing. They're bet on the entire ecosystem. They're betting on the industry, but how do we build in my mind, in Honduras? I grew up playing soccer with kids without shoes. How do we put shoes on a million kids? Across Latin America? You gotta sell something other than coffee beef, and bananas. How do we do that? Well, you need companies that build bigger and better products. You may need to move up the production food chain. How do we do that? Well, we need to be able to fund these companies You know, if I have a laptop and an Internet connection, you know, like he was saying, these people can compete with AI programmers anywhere in the world. Like, we have access to the same tools, I can sell software anywhere in the world. But how do we get these companies funded? And then how do we fund these companies if we don't have x's? And so that's kind of the the life cycle for me. And my worst case scenario is you generate you know, you put $10,000,000 into the venture ecosystem, you generate I don't know. A thousand of great jobs, and you give people a really good education. On an impacts fail, that's my saying. On a return scale, we gotta make returns for these limited partners and for these investors. Otherwise, the entire is going to die and people are going to get pissed and angry and walk away. And I think this happened quite a bit as well. So can we do quick summaries of the the two other calls? If it's I saw there was a is it Francisco Fernando? The biotech guy. He is so was did I get a $19,000,000 fund? Like And his next one wants to be fifty. In in in fund size, like, that's teeny. Right? Like, in like, and he's, like, the guy for, like, the first like, that's teeny tiny. And he's like, don't talk to me about a $100,000,000. I can't touch that. I can't do that. I would just be this very responsible. That's another theme that another Well, yeah. That's a big theme. We yeah. We heard that from Mexico too. Like And and Oh, yeah. No. Sorry. Then so, then I thought, you know, Start Up Chili keeps getting referenced as, like, big bang for the buck. Right? And so, again, back to CAF and governments and what to do and, like, I mean, it seems like an obvious thing, and I don't know how obvious it is, but take the parts that started Chile that worked and do them in whatever context is relevant for your country and size and all that stuff. And then, the sort of dog and pony show or roadshow, I guess, or trade facilitation or, like, show them around Silicon Valley. That was just sort of alien alieny alieny. Or Alene. That's also a I don't know how much I mean, we could certainly say that, and I and I think I was talking to Jeffrey, like, you know, whether it's Boston or Silicon Valley or some combination of all of those, I think the recommendation is roughly, like, it's pretty expensive and kind of labor intensive and relationship intensive. So, like, do a thousand of those. So the logic is centralize it create some filter, some protocol, some base funding, economies of scale, like, have two super connected people. Maybe they're part time. Right? They gotta go back to Jonathan's next job. And or like yeah. And and and and have have them sponsor that kind of an effort. But I know. What any other takeaways from the two calls today? In in In in my mind, I've always wondered why there isn't more biotech and life sciences in Latin America. I mean, it is a wealth of biodiverse a wealth of new molecules, a wealth of you know, You go to a rainforest, and what do you see? Know, plants are chemical factories. And, you know, you have poison frogs and, you know, came from you know, it's a derivative of the cork tree. And so you come up with a lot of those but there's no real capital to support that. And that's one of the reasons why, you know, I'm helping Fernando kind of on the side help him connect with some fund to funds in The States from time to time just because you gotta have more than that. If you want better ag in the industry, you know, you need more of that. So Well, the fund of funds was another theme, though. Right? Like, the biotech guy raised it. And the someone else had raised it. Like, they're work I mean, I it's I think I'm right, I'm I'm hearing that over and over again. Or the Fernando, the the the other guy from Chile, see the consolidation. Now when I talk to investors, when I'm talking about funds and funds of America, nobody like the double fees, and it's complicated, and it's more layers of bureaucracy. If I'm a real hardcore investor, just want to go straight to the source. I don't want to go through like intermediaries and blah blah blah. But so that's a kind of a non market based social cause that, like, maybe somebody subsidizes the cost inefficiencies and structural inefficiencies of a fund to fund, to facilitate its, you know, economist of scale. That's what the guy in Chile actually suggests. Is having the development banks get together, kind of anchor these funds to funds, and then go and talk to the pension funds in Latin America, which manage 1,400,000,000,000.0. And say, hey. Look. We wanna teach you how to invest in venture, and allocate, you know, 10, 20, what have you, million We're gonna invest in a bunch of funds Worst case scenario, you get a bunch of employees in Honduras that are actually paying into the pension system. That's where your money's gonna go. Like, it's gonna go to employees and they're gonna have pensions. And so you're basically recycling your money You know? Henry Ford decided to pay, you know, people enough money that they could buy a car. That's kind of venture in small country strategy or could be. But, yeah, I would be interested in talking to the guy in Chile again and specifically asking him to kind of flesh out his fund to funds kind of strategy and what what he thinks Cath should be doing and see if he could actually write up a one or a two kind of explaining that and then talking to him about that. If you guys are interested in that, happy to do that. Yeah. Because, the these guys seem to have all the expertise accumulated expertise over the years. So they kinda know what exactly is missing, and they're kind of kinda of at the end, of the research, at the end of the experience, with a lot of funds, with a lot of companies that have already reset received investments. And at the end of the experience of the companies becoming unicorn. So these type of guys really could give us good insights on what should CAF what should CAF be, you know, like, focusing And then and then this last guy mentioned something about anchor investments. Right? It's something that Cats could also bring to the table. Just because is one of the things that is simply needed. You know? And Santiago Zavala actually from Five Hundred Mexico actually said that. When IDB actually came in, it made a big difference that that was a quality signal for the rest of the families that he had actually been talking to to pile in. Although, it's gonna take a year and a half to get a $2,000,000 check, is it really worth it? And so that's kind of the the calculus. And so in my mind, if Kath does this, you know, take a year and a half vetting a fund to funds manager, but then actually have them build out a pipeline where it's much quicker to actually write a check. You know? Three to four months, you should be able to get to a three yes or no within three to four months. You know? In Silicon Valley, the gold standard is Andreessen, will tell you no in ten days. And no is a great answer. It's the second best answer than yes. The worst the worst answer is a VC who, like, yeah. I need a little more information. I need the I need that. And they drag the process out a year. And as a founder, as in a GP, you're wasting your time. Does that serve a scarce asset? So now now that you're saying that, Jonathan, makes me makes me remember what the woman from CAF said. I don't remember her name right now, but she she at some point, she intervened to say yes. Of course. You know, there are many ideas that there are many ideas that are gonna come from the study, but there are there are so many things that that we could do, but we have a limit. We have constraints. There's our reality in the bank. So that makes me think that we we need to get to know that those constraints and that reality. For know, first for because we need to know about those constraints, but also to let them know you need to change those constraints. I mean, on a governance level, at least as recommendations, Maybe there are things that are allow to do, for this type of investments, which are very, you know, innovative. At this point in time. And now we're talking sorry, Johnson. And now we're talking about over 50% of investments have have to do with AI. Right? Mhmm. And I I also think that one of the things that Cath can do is start to standardize things. You know? Say, look. If you're gonna come pitch us, this is what we need. Here's the due diligence packet that we're gonna ask for you. You know, before you do that, And you know, if I have a list of requirements, that you and every other LP is gonna want You know? Let's just fill that the the institutional, the ILPA, institutional limited partner association, actually has kind of a standardized checklist. You know? These are best practices in the industry. Let's just list them. This is what we're gonna require of you. Whenever you're ready. This is what any other institutional investor is gonna be looking at. Whenever you're ready do that. So on that note, I'm sending this link to you guys. I'll put it in an email as well. But can we just start jotting down, just listing out these so we don't forget them? Some of these conclusions. And because I think we're coming up with with some of them. Like, for ideas of of recommendations to flesh out. I think yeah. Just so we don't forget, I'm like, again, what was the so there was a start up Chile piece. They sent toolkit, standardized requirements. AI focus, Fund the funds. Fund of funds. And if you're a great LP, you open up doors to other LPs. So build relationships with other LPs so you can give warm introductions. Okay. Connect with Silicon Valley or make it easy for help your fund managers build relationships with other fund managers outside of your little circle. So you can actually help your portfolio companies raise. But you remember I think I think it was Peter that he said that it it be useful for CAF to have a if I understood correctly, maybe I didn't, to have a an office in at Silicon Valley, something like that. I I don't remember if it was Peter or if was the last the the guy before. Said something that. Said it wouldn't be helpful for the founders to have the office unless they start selling to The United States. Mhmm. But show up a couple times a year So I mean, I've experienced this. I was hosting a hackers and founders meetup, and people would just show up. My meetup and say, hey. Who do I talk to? I'm here for ten days. Mhmm. I still get that a lot. That that that should be another recommendation for Cath. They they would need to be on a more regular basis in the middle of the not for four three to four isolated events during the year, but to I don't know, be more in the middle, those events or networking engagements or events and and also bringing with them their possible clients. Not only them, of course, as staff from CUF, but people that they would invest in the funds, And in my mind, like, what what Francisco said this morning was, you know, I wanna go to huge mass of event. I wanna go to smaller, more targeted events where I can actually meet people. And I can talk with them, and it's a lot more manageable. So hosting events and helping to events or you know, connecting with people who do organize events? Yeah. There's something there. Right? We've seen that over and over again. So here's our startup Chile document. Little historical analysis, money in, money out. I did this since I said start up Chile in the middle of the call. It's too much information, man. Like, what are we gonna do? I could sit around and prompt these guys all day long. Like, I would I I could literally spend, like, forty five seconds on this. It's not fair. It's insane. What if I spend a minute and a half on it? Like, you know, there's too much information coming in and out. Now. We're just overwhelmed. Like, have my AI talk to your AI. Jeffrey and I were exchanging this stuff. But look at that. This is our branding book and everything. I've I asked Andrea to come up with a workflow so we can do this a little more responsibly. But, basically, one of us will chop in ChatGPT on whatever we want. We'll copy and paste it into an ugly Google doc. And we'll chop on it each other, like, for some rest responsible due diligence and narrative and writing and whatever. And then we'll see it, Andrea. Okay. Wrap it up and send it. And then, like, fifteen minutes, she should be able to convert our, you know, Google doc into something totally and beautiful like this that's, like, a little more consistent because these are, like, you have to tweak little tang things. Oh, I want this a little bigger or whatever. But, like, that's a that's a quad and Canva integration that's, like, totally doable. But I I mean, not that, like, I'm not sure. This is, like, a little bit of a distraction, but it's a bit of a means to an end. Like, if we actually have these nuggets and and maybe we wait for the cap project to be done and we release one a month, you know, and one has Jonathan's name on it, one has Rigo's name on it. We go to our other bank of advisors, they get a little love because we drafted them this beautiful paper pension reforms. Got this pension expert. Right? So back to the whole pension conversation. Jonathan, all of your work could, be a part of this to to the extent that you want. And as we sort of, you know, get our brand out there and, like, somebody goes to our website, there's, here's 10, like, you know, within a realm of, like, these 10 ideas that are, like, really concrete and specific and, like, as a two pager, like, really telling me, like, an interesting insight. I don't know. I'm This is still a bit the old it's a little bit new school of the old school, but, you know, they we're not doing TikTok videos. Right? So the other stream would be, like, TikTok videos. Right? This is, like, still, like, somewhat institutional, but, like, the IDB would spend $200,000 and take six months to do this document. And so are you familiar with SmartRevity? Have you read Axios? I have not. No. Neither. So just it's called SmartBredity. It's a style of communication. Smart Brevity. Basically, it's bullet points small, short, active sentences, why this matters, kind of direct, and then you can kind of double click. And open it to more information if you actually wanna get more information. I think like, a SmartRevity one or two pager, I love infographics. Because like, if you look at what Peter Walker does, subscribe to him. And every fucking day, man, he puts like, he just dishes gold out there in his studies. And I would say, like, every two or three studies I see are just fantastic. But he just has this pipeline, and he writes all of his own copy I'm sure that that's kind of guided with AI. I also think that with realize I was on that is slight. Sorry. But go ahead, sir. Sorry. I I also think that when Natasha is the database that she's actually collecting about all these conversations, the data structure being able to pump that into an AI, I think we'll be able to have some pretty unique insights. Like, proprietary datasets is the thing that nobody else has. Yes. And and I think, you know, even if it's like don't think anyone's gonna really hit us on, like, hey. Where's your data? Like, you know, we're just gonna, like, it's a little bit of the quick and dirty version. But back to the calf kind of insight. So just confirmed with them at Wednesday. We'll invite inviting you guys now I don't wanna overwhelm her, so if you can't make it, no problem. But I do think that I want you guys to hear or I I could also record it, but, like, that sucks. You know? I mean, you guys can do like, I just added you to a meeting with the boss. Like Natas, Alejandra. So as you can see, we're getting kind of crap from Gabriela. Like, maybe next week. Like, I didn't forgot. Like, we did something Friday. What happened? Were we supposed to talk today? I maybe I screwed up, but, like, I just think they're they're slow and you know? But we'll we have to I need to just try to get that back on. But but we're gonna talk to, like, how to do it, like, provision that's probably gonna be different from Alejandra or Gabriela's, and then we're gonna crosswalk the two. So hopefully, you can join 05:00 eastern on Wednesday. Sorry. I'm ten minutes late to another one. Thank you, guys. Great stuff. Bye bye. Bye. Thank you. Che pensa snack?  
Me: ¿De qué? ¿De de qué de todo?  
Them: Correcto. ¿De qué? De todo.  
Me: Exacto. No, me me parece, los los noto muy y eso me copa. Pero no, no sé querés que te diga en particular. Te voy a pasar algo como por el chat de WhatsApp, porque no quiero que quede acá todavía.  
Them: Pero Mark está tan emocionado de lo que está haciendo con Juan, y que ya compró el premium.  
Me: Es increíble, pero pero sí,  
Them: Sí.  
Me: sí, de ahí hay que venderlo, digamos. Si es accesible y se hace en un minuto y medio, bueno, ¿cuál es tu al respecto de otras consultoras, ¿no?  
Them: Correcto.  
Me: De hecho, acabo de en LinkedIn, que dice, ahorrate una consultoría de quinientos mil dólares con McKenzie, con este prompt de Claude, mándame prompt y te lo mando. O sea, es como buenísimo. Bueno, ¿cuál es nuestra diferencia?  
Them: Lo lo raro es  
Me: Pero  
Them: que Anthropic acaba de vender un partnership a McKenzie, para que ellos promuevan so, they promote Anthropic inside of the consulting that they're doing. So  
Me: Bueno,  
Them: I'm gonna take a little break before the next meeting. But thanks for everything.  
Me: Descansa.