Meeting Title: ALBEDO SOLAR-VC Ecosystem
Date: Mar 11
Meeting participants: Mark, Jnelson, Rigoberto Romero, Jacob Stern, Alex Macfarlan


Transcript:
 
Them: Solo nosotros dos estamos. Qué raro. No, y,  
Me: Sí, acá estoy.  
Them: No, y solo nosotros dos estamos, te digo. Qué raro.  
Me: Nada más de un unos minutitos. Capaz que vienen demorados.  
Them: Me mandaste link a tu documento, ¿Nat?  
Me: Creo que sí, pero, si no, ahí te lo paso de nuevo.  
Them: Al WhatsApp Al, sí, tal vez al WhatsApp, porque sí que sí se se se que el anterior se quedó Hi. Remind me who Alberto is. Albedo Solar. It's a start up, a Guatemalan start up. That has raised funds for its for for the company and the the operations from, what they do basically, they install solar panels to companies and they lease them. It's a lease lease model. Yeah. Scheme. Yeah. And they ensure that they they're they're gonna they're gonna save money on the electric bill They're gonna continue paying the the same amount that they've been paying for, for the electric bill. Like, for four to five years, but the difference is that the their pain also for the equipment. For the same amount that they've been paying for the for their normal electric bill. That's, like, one of their Yeah. They they monok in their price, and they hedge the risk on the electricity prices going down, I guess. And so they charge them the flat fee or whatever. My brother has those on his house. I'm familiar with the model. Yeah. Oh, okay. And yeah. And what what else? Yeah. And and and due to the savings, I mean, yeah, the save the what I'm trying to say here, the the savings can be seen immediately although they they still pay the same electric bill. But they're saving money. And you said they're big? You at something you said Or what did how do we how do we hear about them? How like, I assume there's, a bunch of businesses like that. Or No. There's not a bunch of businesses like that, and, it appeared in our in our in our assessment of startups we should contact Okay. It appeared Alvedo Solaria, and for some reason, they're not here. And, yeah, that's and and yeah. And and they're expanding operations in Honduras. Oh, wow.  
Me: They were invested by Balan Capital. Example.  
Them: Oh, wow. Oh Para empezar todo el resto, también.  
Me: With them in Crunchbase, we don't have information about the, right, the  
Them: Ahí ahí está Hi, Alex. Hi. Good morning. How are you? I good. Good. Me. I was just finishing off another call. Mhmm. But, yeah, man, nice to see you, Rigor, and nice to meet you, Mark and Natasha. Nice nice to see you again, Alex. Is everyone from your side I mean, are you the only ones that's gonna participate? Yeah. My partner, Jake, he got pulled into some accounting stuff. So yeah. Okay. We can we can start the meeting then. And Oh. Oh, here's Jacob. Hi, Jacob. Hi, Roberto, Natasha, Mark. Sorry. I'm late. My boss. We're we're about to start, and maybe we can start with some introductions and why we're here and from our side and and then with with introductions from your side. Mark? Perfect. Thank you both for your time. I'm Mark Lopez. I'm the CEO of the partnership. I have a day job in the Inter American Development Bank. I've been doing this twenty years of, like, DC political jobs, I was the number two of the Latin America bureau at USAID, and then I a US representative to the Interbank Development Bank, left and did six years with startups, and now back doing, like, three jobs. Hopefully, some of them medium quality And we're we're launching this stuff and doing this project with Cav. So we'll explain that. Alright. Good to meet you, Mark. Matt?  
Me: Okay. Thank you, guys, for your time. My name is Natasha. I live in Argentina, y Córdoba, and my day job is CEO of HF Capital, that it's an advisory firm in in The US. We provide consulting services and we are collaborating in these projects with Partnership for Americas.  
Them: Okay. Great to meet you. Okay. Okay. Well, I I know you, Alex, and maybe I've seen you, Jacob, in in our meetings before. So we transitioned from PCA. P PFA basically absorbed us and one of the good things I I I I explained to, you know, to to my colleagues and people that, you know, that that I have relations that we talk about. What is it that we do in PFA? I let them know that we used to be for Central America for three countries, and now we we have a broadened scope. We've broadened scope. In partnership for The Americas. As Mark said, he's he's our executive director, and, we're working on this initiative on or or better said, on this, project with CAF you know, the South American Development Bank, you know, or the Development Bank for the Americas. It's it's like a a bigger which I'm I'm sure you already know Right? And and and probably, of course, you know you know Catherine. We've been working with them. And the thing is, CAF has this, this fund that, they they've implemented in the past, it's called FIDE, in which they've supported, venture capital investments. Okay? They they've had a run for about twenty years with this fund, and now they're trying to implement a a different fund, a better fund that that also supports venture capital. The venture capital ecosystem and the the companies, it's gonna be a fund of funds. And we're meeting with different institutions, you know, with start ups. We're meeting with accelerators. We're meeting with regulatory. Institutions in different in different countries. The countries that are that are object of the scope is Costa Rica, Guatemala, Honduras, and Dominican Republic. And, one of the startups that we wanted to talk to is, Albedo Solar. Get to know more about the company, get to more get to know more about your experience within this ecosystem. What are some recommendations that we could get from you? What would you believe what would you think or what would you aspire that an MDB that brings another fund to invest in companies such as yours, what would you aspire for them to to bring to the table? You know? What is it that we we should suggest to CAF in order for us to develop a better a bit a a better VC ecosystem. So this is the type of questions that we have for you. We have a a a small questionnaire, but but this is more as a more more of a conversation between you and and us. Okay? I don't know, Mark, if you would like to ask Yannick from anything or we could we could just wanna yeah. Curious on your take on the whole ecosystem. What would a development bank do to help with like, modest resources but very strong convenient power? And, yeah, what are your two, three magic wand things that if you could get support for yourself, your own company, or for other other startups in your space, what would be you But we're welcome to any other recommendations. Yeah. Okay. Very interesting. And it it's a exciting exciting to hear these these kind of new new initiatives and, like, there there's just so much going on in Central America, but there are a lot of missing pieces to kind of, like, unlock the potential. I'll be very happy to to talk them through. Do you want us to start just like a general kind of appraisal, and then we can get into some details? Yes, please. Go ahead. So maybe just just to touch about us where market Natasha, much do you know about what we do? Should we give you a little bit on that? Would love the one zero one. Yeah. I've heard the the initial business model from Rigo, but would love the hear from you. Great. Good. So it started, about seven years ago, recognizing that market fundamentals for SME solar in Central America are best in the world. So three year returns, three, four year returns, without subsidies compared to, you know, North America, Europe, twelve, fifteen, eighteen years with, high subsidies. So strong market fundamentals, but access to financing for SME is very different. The the famous missing middle or missing middles And then two, the regulatory environment is very weak. Slash nonexistent. So lots of quality concerns about electricity codes, solar institutions, solar installations. There there are some great installers and some cowboys. So we we really can feel we had attacked those two pieces, like, the financing, the quality, and then we put it all together in a a one stop shop solution for SMEs. Taking out the risk and then, you know, taking out the cash flow hit. So so, again, lease to own average contracts of three to six years low to no risk there, and it's about a 10 next return for the client. We've done Two Hundred And Installations Now Across Guatemala, El Salvador, and Honduras. So business model tested, market fit tested, and, really, it's just it's grow time. How many installations can we do? You know, some more regional expansion market penetration. Market penetration is, like, two, two and a half percent in those three countries. So there's a lot of room to grow And important to mention that about half of our portfolio, 44%, are high social impact clients. So women led businesses, youth led, rural businesses, high poverty area businesses, So we kinda have that big environmental effect but direct it to SMEs, which the the engine of employment and and growth in Central America. So combining social and environmental impact. Yep. So just scale scale scale is what what we're all about at the moment. Okay. Great. Great. And and, Alex, can you please tell us can you talk about your company raising capital? You know, where were your main sources of capital? What were the bottlenecks you found or the constraints? Or what was easy for you? What was difficult? What did you over, overpass and all that overcome. Sorry. Yes. So we launched in January 2021. So we're just over five years old going into our sixth year. We started with friends and family. Like, the works really well for the business. It lines up well with the profiles of customers. And, really, we you know, on the client side, we could just raise debt, put out debt. So we started with friends and family, tickets of, you know, 20 to $50,000 for the first couple years. Then into family offices, angel investors, small funds, and then the last two, three years, more institutionals have come on, smaller impact funds, some local banks, like, on on the debt side. So there's a kind of trajectory toward bigger tickets, longer tickets, and more institutional there. But, yeah, we you know, to get to step two, you gotta do step one and and have more track record, more more growth. And then on on the equity side, we raised on those safe contracts starting three years ago. And then, you know, there's no standard safe in Guatemala, so we, tropicalizado, like, we've, you know, adapted the safe for Central America. And that that worked well for us. Navigating the legal kind of hurdles that are involved in in kind of adapting and And then the this year is our first price round So convertible notes and then then price round So there's, like, a trajectory toward the same trajectory on on both sides towards, like, more formal, larger tickets, more institutional investors? In terms of bottlenecks, yeah, it might be easy to talk about, like, where was it easy rather than where was it hard because it's just, like, the lots of missing middles, like, to to jump from 50,000 tickets to 200,000. So very, very illiquid markets on both the debt and the equity side. It's a lot of detail here. Like, local banks require collateral requirements that just focused on, like, personal guarantees and land guarantees. So even though we have a strong portfolio, strong liquid asset, Most local banks really care about that at all. So there's a there's a opening there just to recognize different collateral types would have been very helpful. So as we grow the portfolio, we could use that portfolio to just find more more investment. Which hasn't really been possible. There's a bit more like, we're getting more traction with that recently, but it's it's generally difficult. Yeah. On the debt side, it's like, you know, we've we've with family officers, generally, they move faster with angel investors move faster. Impact funds that we've been involved with generally move quite slowly, like very long processes, and we've we've been through whole bunch. But that really that hasn't kept up with the growth in the business, and has been kind of a a break on the business rather than kind of really seeing the opportunity and and kinda growing with us. It's been us kinda like trying to, like, push that forward to keep up with client demand. And kinda general comment on equity. Equity is tough in Central Small number of players The players that are there, let's say, like, in the VC world, strong tech focus. You know, we're we're growing low risk, high impact company. Doesn't really fit the profile of a lot of the tech focused VCs out there. You know, more traditional impact equity There are small number of interested parties there. Like, a lot of like, the traditional investors, like, based in Central America. Invest in real estate and, you know, kind of, like, more traditional invest investors for an impact startup that's a little out of their wheelhouse. So finding good equity fits has been tough as well. Jake, you wanna chip in anything there? Yeah. I mean, I guess just taking kind of a step back. I think we have, like, a strong kind of nuts and bolts business with guaranteed cash flows relative low risk, and we would not have been able to get off the ground if we didn't have access to friends and family networks and philanthropic capital that was willing to take some bets on us. Early on. Right? So, like, I think we're an example of a business that creates a lot of local impact that's relatively derisked versus a traditional venture model. And I think that if we didn't have, you know, the privilege and the networks that we have, then we wouldn't have been able to get it off the ground. So I think that's, like, an interesting problem to think about why that is. I think that the local banks and kind of the infrastructure on the ground are very risk averse. They need to see track record. Right? They're not there's not a lot of risk capital or early stage capital. Then once you have that track record to Alex's points, a lot of their requirements can be pretty onerous. I think they've gotten better over the past few years from what we've seen. And they have more green mandates, more early stage mandates, etcetera. But they still move pretty slowly, and it's pretty conservative. And then on the kind of, you know, venture scale where you think about investors that are traditionally, you know, willing to take more risk, The vast majority of them are looking for software models. Right? So they see what they see in Silicon Valley. They like, why would we invest in a company that's gonna return three x even with lower risk we could get a software company that could potentially return us a 100 x. Right? Or have something that can scale with minimal, you know, incremental cost. Which is fine and good, but there's this gap for, you know, venture capital that is focused on strong business models with lower risk and lower returns. I think, obviously, like, the needs of the region are very different from what the needs are in developed markets where traditional VC is much more common because a lot of that kind of nuts and bolts standard business is and infrastructure is much more built out. Right? Like, there's a bunch of companies like what we do in The US. There's not really any in Central America doing exactly what we do. So, yeah, I think there's, like, a big gap for kind of early stage capital focused on businesses with kind of, like, strong business models that tech businesses or pure tech businesses. So if I can jump in there, like, that's an example for why, like, you guys are of a you know, you're anomaly. Like, you you and it's not you're not a systemic success of the Guatemalan investment environment. You're a nonsystemic success. If you didn't have the friends and family, you wouldn't have been able to start. But the fundamentals of the business are strong. You're business model depends on paybacks from SMEs, is it mostly? Or families? Right. Probably the most initial assumption is like, ah, they're not gonna pay you back. Like and so you got some payment rate question, which is interesting to me. But, like, once you're you're entered into a contract, you're having to upfront the cost of the hardware. You stick it on the roof. You get a contract for a certain amount of returns. Once that's coming in and if the payment rates are fairly consistent, like, it's a super kind of obvious business model. Right? And so there shouldn't be a lot of you know, concern over that given those limitations. And but, yeah, I mean, the take on, like, I want a 30 x you know, return, and I don't want a three x return That's a different model, but I I think yeah. I mean, I so I guess what any thoughts there? And then why aren't there 10 competitors? And I have a house in Mexico, and there's no solar panels everywhere. And every time I walk around, I'm like, this is ridiculous. There's, like, nothing but fun here. And our I'm sure it's, like, a regular Troy thing. They don't have the you know, and they don't wanna deal with it and monopolies and all that. But, like, I could literally you know, power my entire house with probably six solar panels, if I had the buyback thing, like, it would be free, and I can do the cars and everything. It's, just I just sit there's wasted sun everywhere. But I don't know. The Tell me about that. And then how did you I was curious about how did you guys am I right a gringo on an like, you know, kid crushing it and and I love it. But but what what's your respective personal stories? Yeah. So the just on the Mexico Gormale thing, Mexico, like, lots of sun in both. Gormalo, the average electricity price is about three or four times higher than in Mexico. So there's a there's a return thing there. Like, Central America even compared to Mexico and South America, it is just it's really it's a statistical outlier in terms of market fundamentals. Yeah. So origin stories Yeah. I'm from Sydney, Australia. Came to Gautamon 2011 and worked in the nonprofit sector, some USA AID projects for about nine years or so switching over to the private sector and starting Alberta. Basically, we, you know, we've founded Alberta with a very similar philosophy to like, it worked in community development, economic development, such in in local projects around Guatemala. Alberta was founded with that same spirit and and very similar goals, but with the power of private sector to just scale. And with with the products like, that we sell that we don't need to convince people it's a good idea for the planet, but we just show them, hey. You this is gonna pay itself off in three years. And it'll last thirty or forty years. And get gets people to the table. Jake and I met in Sheila. We we both there in in Western Guatemala, me working nonprofits. Jake working for Alterna Jake, you wanna share a bit about that? Yeah. Alternate was a is a kind of ecosystem builder, social entrepreneurship center, they've had a variety of okay. You guys are familiar. Yeah. So I I worked at Alterna and helped start the first impact fund there, and you know, we were doing debt into SMEs. And it was really hard to figure out In large part, because to invest in these companies, you needed to project that they were gonna grow. And what we saw with the solar model is that we're generating the returns that the companies need to pay off their loan with the panels themselves. So it was just like a vastly derisked model, a way to allow SMEs to invest in their own business and kind of subversively improve the environment even though those businesses didn't need to be concerned about that. In a way that felt really scalable. So yeah, Alex. I mean, Alex just had his quinceanera. He's been there for fifteen years. I lived there for four, and then moved back to The States a couple of years ago. So, yeah, we met, living down in Quetzaltenango together. And then just on that the like, with with Jake's point about if we didn't have kind of friends and family privilege, we have got it off the ground. Thinking the other factor there is, like, the you know, it's not just alternative, but that's fear of, like, being well there, like, going going to Like, flea, and there there are a few others, making good connections there. Like a few chance meetings at there, like, and and turned into key really helped us happen. So with with your point, Mark, about, like, being, a nonsystemic factor, like, yeah, there is, like, this little system or a little ecosystem And even compared to, like, when I started going to flee ten years ago, it felt like really, really small, and that feels slightly less small. But it's a it's a good environment for businesses like us. And yeah. Yeah. To that point, I was also gonna say, Mark, that you know, I think we wouldn't have gotten from zero to one. Without that. But to get any kind of exit velocity, we've needed to leverage that ecosystem, and we can talk about what has worked as well. So it's really kind of the initial stages to build enough of a track record be able to access some of the local kind of impact capital. But I think that the same issue exists of it feels to me like the local entities are very process oriented. You're not talking to You're not talking to people that are really understanding your business model. They're looking at numbers on the page and seeing whether they can approve it based on what those numbers are and what their rules are. And then when you talk to people that are really understanding business, understanding how things can progress, The vast majority of those people that have that business acumen and are thinking critically about whether this could be a good investment are looking for different types of investments than what our business does and what I think a lot of businesses like ours do, specifically that they're more kind of focused on VC model and tech growth. Or some of the impact funds are focused on really deep specific types of impact. And kind of finding, like, the gap that you as a business fit into within that e ystem can feel challenging sometimes. And I think there's opt opportunities out there, There's just few and far between, and you might need to talk to, you know, five banks and 25 funds you find something that could be a good fit. So Yeah. What are you saying that in? Sorry. Go ahead. No. Just we we can double in growth each year and maintain with high impact maintain at at par 30 is, like, point 0.3%. Somewhere there, like, very healthy. The ecosystem isn't quite there. Like, a lot of the the impact funds are actually looking for higher risk and higher return, but we we provide, like, lower risk and and offer lower returns. Still good, but, like, not you know, high teens, let's say. Few few players out there. What what so so it's it's really interesting. I mean, the the story you're you're telling us you're you're doing things not precisely like it's done in the ecosystem, but at the same time, with a lot of the characteristics that that you that we need to have in in the ecosystem, you you are doing your your activities. I mean, you're raising you're raising funds the way that you you did raise the funds that you told us, but then the you're not being considered because of the return and all that. But so knowing all this, what do you think that can be done, for example, by a MDB, by a DFI or an MDB that's truly interested in supporting companies like yours, truly interested in diversifying their investments, knowing that there are so many there are only so many companies that they could invest in the tech sector that when we talk about Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, there's also a limited amount of startups that are at hand. What do you think that we could benefit from, you know, an MDB such as CAF, what what should they bring programs directed to companies like yours specifically, or, we've even got, you know, comments about these funds not knowing about companies these funds not willing to invest because there's not enough information. What would you recommend? Alex and Jacob. Do you wanna start with the wish list, Jake, or should I Maybe I'll start with one that's not so much about a product and more so about, like, a process, which is obviously easier said than done. But, you know, I feel like there's all of these interesting in ways that the development banks have thought about how do we solve these problems. And so oh, we have this first loss program, and we have this venture debt fund, and we have this fund that's focused specifically on environment, and we have you know, this is who you can talk to to do VC. And so I feel like a lot of that has been really thought through, but then when you actually get into a process, it's really long. It's really hard. It can feel really risk averse. Right? So I think we'll get money. Hopefully, fingers crossed, from the IDB this year, but, like, after a process that's taken, like, two years. Essentially. Right? And so I think, like, the banks have so much money. Like, what if what if a fund's, like, you know, innovation wasn't about the product but about the process, and they said, you know what? Gonna move faster maybe be a little bit more risk acceptance in the process side of things and just see how it goes. Right? And if we lose a couple $100,000 trying that, we lose a couple $100,000 trying that, but maybe you know, things will work out really well. I think for me, like, being able to be more efficient in the and not just having the products be but the ability to, like, move quickly, I think could be really to a lot of businesses. That'd be nice. That's a key point, and it it's well received, and it's not not unknown. And, I mean, I think, yeah, that I we're we're we're we're playing with Right? They'd like to really analyze the heck of it and give you a million dollars, and you're saying, can we just stop thinking and give me 200 k in, like, a tenth of the time? That's more valuable to me right now than if we'd wait a year and give me a million later. It's a fair point. Yep. And and that we sort of diversified to achieve almost exactly how you put it, Mark. Like, longer processes for bigger tickets with larger institutionals and at the same time, try and move quickly with family, friends, family offices, angels, and that combination has has worked pretty well for us. So another one so we're in we're in a USAID Palladium accelerator. This is about a year and a half ago, two years ago, and we got in just as it was winding down. That was one, and then we started it. So we didn't get too much juice out of that that a little bit just because we were, like, the last in before. They were kind of wrapping up the process. And then we started another one the start of last year, and we're in it for about six weeks or so. But it actually helped us expand to Elsa and Honduras, and that there was actually, like, a really impactful six weeks. But one of the the things that we were working on in the first process Like, there's a whole bunch of money for renewables getting put out to local banks and regional banks through like, Green green funds, and, like, you know, $102,100,000,000 dollar kind of lines which would be fantastic for us and would help us grow. We're too small to take those tickets directly. But what happens a lot is that the banks are very interested, and they could park you know, $510,000,000 with us, and we could put it out. Hit their impact goals. It's good for the banks. It's good for the d I DFIS putting that out. But then we get in, and and everyone's very interested in that. And then we get into the process, and the bank's internal process is kind of like slow down or or stop the process at a certain point. So but the the idea there was, a guarantee for the bank or just saying, like, great. Put it out. Like, we'll we'll put the collateral or or some kind of bank guarantee there. To unlock that that capital. And we're still we're in processes with several banks trying to do that still. And the the, like, traditional balance sheet evaluation, of the banks stops those processes a lot. So if it's a bank guarantee or or another to kind of just unlock money that's already there, looking at how portfolio health and such would be would be great because the the money's there. Me see if I understand that. Are you talking about the local bank processes or the on lending banks the DFI? The local banks. So the DFI gives a $100,000,000 to and they're saying, hey. Put it out. Put it out. And then with know, any local bank, and then, like, great. We've we've dispersed five of a 100,000,000 and it's those, like, slow bank processes. So shortcuts to get that money out, to recipients like us that would take it today. It take a lot and would take more tomorrow, and, you know, put it straight into projects. That's interesting. So, yeah, the the the kind of, on lending facility model whereby the DFI puts 100,000,000 and says, lend to women. And they say, great. We're gonna lend to women or lend to green or lend to water. And, you know, it's a specious model in some ways where the banks sometimes were already lending to women, and so they basically got a subsidized rate for the stuff they were already doing. And then, hopefully, they got some more. So that's in the worst case scenario. They just, like, got free kind of, you know, capital to back what they're already doing. Or lend SMEs, where they're like, oh, I don't wanna lend SMEs at pain. So, like, we kinda push them into that, and they put they sort of flood them with money to kinda kick them out the door. But then you're saying that the bank's processes themselves just suck and they're not moving the money at at a as a a good question on what are the requirements for the banks themselves to actually move the money that they were given for the on lending facility, and is there a timeline factor there? But then you're also saying maybe there's a a a sweetener for if we you to move a 100,000,000, we'll give you a 100,000,000. But we'll also guarantee some portion of losses so that you can move this faster. Right? And that may be a valuable kind of piece. That's a really good kind of point for us to think through, Rigo. Because those are common facilities. I'm you know, in the some of the some of the purest don't like it because it's, like because it's going through that local bank, it's not a direct investment. But for different reasons. But I didn't I'm glad to hear that there's examples where that's been for facilitated well for you. I'm also interested that the Palladium piece useful to you and the flea piece. Right? To be honest, like, sometimes I go to the flea and I we just went in in Merida, our colleague went, and I've been to the one in in Guatemala. Is that how did did you guys did meet Jeffrey there or no? Maybe not? Didn't meet Jeffrey. No. Michael is there from PSA. Michael McCarthy. Alright. Right. Michael. Perfect. Yeah. He wasn't able to join because his flight got delayed. I think we the I I sometimes can't tell if that's, a party for a bunch of start up folks. Right? And, like, if there's no funders there and, there's no, like but, you know, and I know I assume that the the Guatemala Palladium, was that with Whitney Dubinski through USAID? That whole world? Yeah. Whitney, Arnold. Yeah. Yeah. The few few rotations. Like, would you did you see that as, like, a valuable thing? Like, should the fund Palladium to do whatever they were doing? I mean, Palladium is typically, like, expensive and whatever. But, like, what what's your take on that? Yeah. We're just on on Flea, like, Flea, they basically created the perfect conference for us, like, for us specifically. That's not true for every actor, but for us, like, raising money, it's, you know, the family officers, the funds, the impact funds. It's, like, great. And, you know, if it went for two weeks, we could just have, you know, a thousand conversations rather than 50. We we'd do that. It'd be taxing that we'd do it. Wow. Yeah. The flea Central America great. Flea Merida is, like, we just meet a lot of people, and and it's it's the the Band Aid on the, like, illiquid capital market and you just sometimes you, you know, you're having a beer at the bar with someone and it changes your your life and it like, it it's not an ideal situation that those chance meetings and are actually kind of, like, how to navigate the ecosystem. But for the moment, it's they're yeah. They're very, very impactful for us. And then on on Palladium, I yeah. Like, the first process, not a whole lot of juice. I think there just wasn't a lot of money and time kind of left there. So there was a lot of, like, great. Let's do things, but our five year process ends in a month. So the the second process that we're in with Palladium, yeah, great. We're they really we were one of the first in impactful in every regional expansion. Was a good moment for us where we needed a whole lot of introductions, and they introduced us to to some good people. The you know, they helped us a bit on, like, bank capital like, introductions with banks and such. Don't think they've really turned into a lot but maybe, you know, it would take a bit longer. So not sure in terms of, like, enthusiasm to actual execution there, but it was a it was a pretty short time on the second one. But, yeah, like, what what exactly did they do for you? Like, what did the Palladium person I don't know who they are. It was, a local or whatever. Like, what did they do that you can't do? I mean, you can talk to banks. You can do all this. Is it, like, they saved you time. They saved you money. They help you with your DAX. Like, is it basic stuff or advanced or relationships, trust? Yeah. Relation relationships, basically, everything. So, like, go going into Honduras in El Salvador, they put us in touch with a bunch of banks, a bunch of lawyers, a bunch of accountants, a bunch of potential solar partners, some just basically, introductions. But knowing who to trust is very important. Warm introductions is important. So country expansion that you know, it's not a ton of work, but it's very important, that little piece. And then in terms of Guatemalan banks, similarly, who who you know is important and how you're introduced to those people are important. Think out of both processes, the main thing we got was was introductions to to people that we should be working with. That's great. Okay. Great. I have a I have I have a a question about what about the regulation in each of the countries that you're working? I mean, because you've been in Guatemala, but then you you wanted to you you've expanded to Honduras en El Salvador. And what have you found in terms of regulation in the three countries or or or maybe, you know, mean, maybe you've been dealing more with Guatemala, what about the regulations? You know? What about the banking system or any any start up law that has supported any of your of the investments you've made What what can you tell us about that? And at the same time, thinking about what could you change of that regulation. Moving forward. Yeah. So the few maybe I'll do, like, solar and legal, and Jake will do accounting. Sure. Alexa, so so it kind of varies between the countries. So that's sort of, like, we just have to navigate that, but we're doing it Bit of a headache, but not navigatable. On the legal side, that's part of what the contacts that we were introduced by the Palladium process was, like, you know, we we spent probably a couple months in total, looking at work what kind of entity should we start? What are the tax implications? Like, we sort of felt like we were trying to navigate it or re reinvent the wheel or so. It'd be great to have, let's say, like, a playbook. Hey. Do you wanna do this? Just pick this, this legal entity. That's more true in El Salvador. Honduras was, like, alright. We just need to navigate this kind of system whereas in in El Salvador, making it more accessible. A lot of the are really designed for businesses not like ours. Like, El Salvador, there are a bunch of renewables tech incentives, renewables incentives, but renewables is incentives for massive projects, not for help to consumo or SME kind of impact. So we explored incentives in well, in in all three countries and haven't been eligible for any yet from on the government side. Although, I think we've, you know, think we're a good kind of candidate for, high impact but we we still haven't managed one of those. Just to mention, like, we're we're and then pass over to Jake for accounting. Or, you know, almost a year now, we've been in the process of setting up a deciding on the structure for a regional holding company. Navigating that has been tricky. Like, just everyone you talked to has differing advice on perception or structure. You know, who which lawyers can do which kind of advice just navigating that, and we've been doing it ourselves. Again, like, having a playbook there. Like, if you if you have these kind of characteristics and goals, This is a standard structure that is very functional for these reasons. If you have these characteristic you should pick this structure. That kind of stuff would have saved us so much time in terms of regional expansion. Yeah. Jacob, accounting's been fun. Yeah. I won't bore us with with accounting details. Think, like, taking a step back a little bit to both of your questions, like, I think that, yeah, we felt like we've needed to kind of figure out a lot of stuff for ourselves that I think an entity like a Palladium could help companies like ours navigate. Right? Like, we've just talked about the funding ecosystem isn't so enormous or so differentiated that somebody that, you know, is constantly maintaining their pulse on the types of capital out there, who the right funders are, the connections could save a company like ours tons of time by understanding what we do and saying, okay. These seem like the right types of capital. These are the types of investors that do that, and here's some intros. Like, I think that having entities out there that can help companies like ours navigate those types of things is really helpful. And then that applies to other, like, country expansion, holding company. It it's etcetera. Like, I think kind of high level like, consulting services for businesses that are trying to make those types of moves and getting that subsidized could be really helpful. You know, like, if we were venture backed and had millions to blow, we would just hire lawyers and expensive consultants to do all of that stuff for us so that we as the founders need to be spending so much time doing that and could focus on growing the business. We do spend a lot of time doing that type of work. Because we kind of have to. So I think, like, for a Palladium or an entity like that, kind of those subsidized, like, sophisticated consulting services could be a real boon to the ecosystem or at least for business like ours. I know Crossboundary was another that we nearly started an a consultancy like that with to kind of prepare us for capital raising. And then their funding got pulled along with the rest of USAID stuff. So yeah, that was That was my question on Crossbound as well to be candid. I'd love your feedback. Like, what you know, cross boundary, like, you know, I don't we know them decently. I don't know exactly you know, how they work, but you know, if you find the start up that, like, has everything but needs a couple little things, and they come in and kinda help those couple little things, like, makes a lot of sense. Right? And AID is right to go in and, like, yeah, we'll play the thing. We'll see a couple of things, they get it done. I'm sure there's a whole another universe of of founders who have a crap idea, no business fundamentals, and they help them make this basic deck and help them, like, go through this basic pitch, which a real founder, I would say, like, you guys, like, you're gonna learn it on, you know, YouTube. And you already know it. Like, if they can't pitch their basic business, do they have any business in business? And so, like, how do you know if CrossBundary is just, like, throwing money down a hole by helping these nice people, but they're not actually gonna be successful and you have this sort of mice sort of sort of piece. So, I mean, would you have paid to me, like, CrossFoundries and nonmarket solution because you should if they were so valuable, you would pay them. Like, why isn't there a, you know, something in between the expensive lawyers and the cacophonous processes and, like, essentially a fixer where you pay, like, a local fixer and that's cross boundary and they go around and do all that stuff, but for a fee. Yeah. So the so there was one Okay. Go for it, Jack. No. I think that a fee would we would definitely pay for it. The issue is how much you need to pay for the services that we really need. And how much do the lawyers and the good consultants cost for the type of activity that we need to do. And I would think that there's, like, right, What you described about, like, a business that doesn't even have a deck or a financial model, like, that's what an alternative for is for or, like, some other ecosystem player. And maybe cross boundary does some of that too that I'm not aware of, but I would think that you could have more kind of, like, upmarket sophisticated players that you measure based on their results, and they're more selective in who they're choosing based on how prepared those business are. To do that work. So I'd think that there's, like, still a space there to be filled. That that those actors wouldn't need to also be doing the businesses that don't, that don't have a deck. And, yeah, we would be willing to pay for it. It just ends up becoming really expensive. Right? And maybe I'm always comparing to venture because that's who we're competing with with these funds and not succeeding so far. But right? Like, they're raising a bunch of money and then blowing it. Right? Like, our business model is run on being cash positive, on being as profitable as quickly as possible. And so sinking, you know, $40,000 into something that hopefully us money over the span of the next year. Right? Like, might not be as feasible to us as somebody that has a couple millions sitting in the bank from their last round that they just look at as kind of, like, burn rate. So, like, we would pay for it. It's just what we need is really expensive. And so I think subsidizing some of that, but having buying from the companies still could be could be useful. So in in the example that so we went through Pomona accelerator 2023 for renewables. It's good. Like, I personally have been through, like, 10 accelerators. And with Alberto, I know four or five or so. Think it was the only one that we really got a lot of juice out of. Great. And they set up, like, a a thing they called, like, the impact center Like, you you got some technical assistance kind of a budget for going through the accelerator, but pretty small budget. And then they set up a a suite of consultants And then you could hire them to to do similar to what we're talking about. Right? Just the the cost was still pretty high The you know, some they were, like, some types of the the types of technical technical assistance that we really need require, like, very specific people. Like, international legal and tax structuring kind of thing. So it was I think it was an attempt to get that done. It just didn't quite work. And I understand well, I think that they're not doing it anymore because not many businesses actually used it. And I think that's, like, level of expertise level of options available, and level of subsidy. But that there was there was something there that could have been really, really cool. If if executed correctly. Actually, where where we started, Alberto, was with seed and seed in in Guatemala. And that was kind of Ernst and Young's attempt to to do this, which is now Itos. And we we still work with them a bit, and they're they're great. They're just a a lot more expensive than they used to be. So, like, there there are a few sort of attempts to do this. But I I definitely agree that there's a space to to really up the volume on it, and it would have a big effect. Okay. Great. Ready for great information. I don't know Mark, Natasha, do you have any other questions? For the moment? No. I'm grateful. You guys are questioning it. I love it. I really I think you're doing great, and, I love the bootstrapping. I love the model. Like, I mean, the I think your biggest risk is if the CPAC interconnection lines, or any kind of major, like, your sort of business is founded on the Guatemala electricity price is staying high. A little bit. Right? If there's some, you know, 13 of the electricity prices, like, trouble. Right? That's true. There there is several reasons why gonna stay high and go higher, and a lot of that's inefficient Corruption Oligopoly, Geographical Monopolies. Like, I Would Love To Say Central America have lower, like, electricity prices, but it's, know, not so much business just for, like, the the health of Central American and the, you know, It's not great for Central America, but it's it's gonna gonna stay high for a while, I think. Even with, like, pig pig four and pig five, it's like a gigawatt coming into, Central America very soon. The electricity demand is just extremely strong, and population growth is extremely strong. So the the fundamentals for the market are, like, heading up rather than down in terms of electricity prices. But it's it's something that we we definitely have an eye on, and yeah. It's like with three return on solar, even if that doubled it'd still be a really good bet. Yeah. And and in terms of your next plans and what you're investing in or or or if you're raising capital? Or where are you right now? Where are you headed? We're in now it's expansion. Right? So clearly, the backlog of existing projects and I mentioned that we've got too much demand for the the capital that we have. So raising equity is our priority. So to to we're in seed equity round for 2,000,000 at the moment. We've got about 1,800,000.0 left to go there. And hoping to close that in Q2. So equity, number one priority. It's, like, number one, two, and three. Raising senior debt on the back of that So the equity allows us to maintain our debt equity under about five to one or so. Most of our potential funders would like it. We've got offers from, like, Bidlab, OIQO, others that would come in with senior debt. If we get that equity piece in. So the equity unlocks the debt. And then the debt unlocks the ton of projects. So priority one in terms of use of funds as satisfy the demand that we have in the three operational countries. Two, we're developing a whole bunch of new tech platforms to continue to And then three, we've got five countries on our regional list, Panama, Dominican Republic, Colombia, and Mexico. But, yeah, the the equity piece really unlocks all of that. And the the final step in that is factoring and warehousing our current projects so we can recapitalize that those markets are more liquid or the more they're more buyers above the, like, $1,520,000,000 dollar portfolio size. So we get the debt we get the equity, unlocks the debt, that unlocks scale, and scale allows us to recapitalize through factoring or warehousing, and then we can scale and scale our impact. Basically without, limits. You know? So equity first. What One, two, and three, as you said. Thank you thank you for the information, Alex. This this is has been very useful. We we made still be in touch, in the coming weeks. We're still working on this piece that we're we're doing with and then we we believe we have really great insights from from your work, and we wish you the best And and hopefully, everything everything improves, and and that equity comes around. Great. And just to say if, I think, Rick, we go ahead shared our latest deck with you. Right? Yes. Yes. If could yeah. If if there's any adjustments or updates, you could send it with me again. I mean, Michael Michael and me. Yeah. Will do. And just to say that, like, we'd appreciate any any context particularly on the equity side, but in general, we're, you know, we're pushing hard to get that done. So if you have any references, we would love to chat with them. Great. Great. Good to know that, Alex. Thank you thank you so much. Okay? Great. Thanks for taking an interest, and thanks for developing this stuff. It's yep. It's team sports, and thank thank you for your part. Thank you for your time. Bye.