Meeting Title: Mark, Geoffrey, Nat, Jonathan, Rigo
Date: Mar 6
Meeting participants: Mark, Iyinoluwa Aboyeji, Rigoberto Romero, Geoffrey Kirkman


Transcript:
 
Them: No bakers arrive ahead of everybody else. Yeah. The notetakers arose on time. Hey, Jonathan. Sometimes I've been in meetings when there've been multiple notetakers and, like, no people. And it's like they're saying, like, well, like I said, the notetakers all meet and take Totally. Just have my AI talk to your AI. Well, the other day when you said said my AI's answer to your AI, AIs, that was like absurd. That's totally where we're going, man. It's it's freaking me all out, like, all this stuff.  
Me: It's only gonna get worse.  
Them: I know. It's freaking me out. No one's reading anything anymore. Like I just give it to me in a short video with an AI avatar.  
Me: I asked Dave McClure last  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: night his idea of, like, development banks and governments taking a position on secondary liquidity. At 01:30 in the morning, his time, he got back to me. He's like, well, the nine pages is probably a little bit too much, but let me try to send you like, a more succinct one page so he just spent a couple of hours with ChatGPT trying to sort it out. And  
Them: Interesting. Interesting. I I mean, like, his is one I wanna read. Yeah.  
Me: what I would probably do is to give it to  
Them: I really want want where did I put that? Reference  
Me: I I'll I'll upload it to the WhatsApp channel.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: But no. Smart guy.  
Them: I mean, clearly, like, I mean, you're you've you've gotten us into a really amazing range of people, Jonathan. Thank you. And that Francisco, like, wow. Like, MPID, PhD, like, deep in the, like, I mean, he's like, knows that world. So so well. I mean, I think yeah, my head is landing on, like, some schema from, you know, building the case for government engagement and and whatever right way is for that country. Now it's kind of an obvious point. But I bet you, like, I mean, where's the cool kid for countries under 10,000,000 people for government, like, you know, facilitation of financial, environment. Like, I haven't seen that. Like, so, I mean, it sounds like, you know, the fact that he had the market segmented across, like, you know, early stay, and then he's like, we're fine here. Major problem here. This is why this is all solved because we had twenty years of pension fund mandates that had required going into like, so obviously, other countries are gonna have those different you know, kind of fundamental, like, start points. But but the point being, like, there's multiples on the dollar of returns when you invest government money in the smart way. And so that's the kind of thing that CAF you know, could lend money to the government. Say, like, we're not asking you for cash. We're gonna lend you money that you invest in this, and that's gonna pay off in returns. And frankly, it may pay off so soon that they don't actually have to pay the reflows and loan. Who knows? But I think again, obvious point, but I bet you that hasn't been run to ground in the way that it it needs to.  
Me: And I don't think I don't think Francisco I mean, he was kind of the voice of one crying alone in the wilderness. Inside of Corfo. When he and I talked, he was just kind of starting to get this junior exchange up and off the ground, and he was like, oh my gosh. Somebody in Latin America who's also in stock markets and capital markets. And so he and I geeked out on that. But he, I don't think, had a ton of fans inside of quarter four or at least, you know, a guy that passionate is gonna divide you know, gonna gonna cause shiblists, and people are gonna be on one side or the other. But I think what he could use I love his idea of, like, three regional fund of funds. And I love his idea of getting the development banks to get the pension systems involved. Because I think that that could actually also really add a multiple to you know, every dollar that the development bank puts in, if we can get five from local pensions,  
Them: That's really interesting.  
Me: I don't know I don't know if that's worked, but I think it's well worth another longer conversation with him. And I think it's worth him to draft up, like, a one or a two pager of how you would see that work. And add it to kind of our recommendations. But let me ping e here. And I  
Them: Looks like he's here.  
Me: Mac also had an interesting idea of starting a fund to help people do leveraged buyouts. Specifically to actually help  
Them: Sorry. Hello?  
Me: There we go. How are you, my friend?  
Them: I'm good. I'm good. I'm so sorry I'm late for the call. Forgive me.  
Me: No worries, my friend. Thank you so much for your time. Let me give you a little background. On the group and can let the group introduce them, and I'll introduce them to you as well. So Partnership for Americas is v two point o of a startup that Mark launched during the Obama excuse me, during the Biden administration. And they set up a public private partnership that reported to Kamala Harris whose job was to grow Central America's economy to stop people from walking north. And in a couple of years, a 4% team and a bunch of advisers got like, 5 to $6,000,000,000 in new business commitments to Central America. No longer have quite quite as extensive as a government hookup up with the recent political changes in The US. But version two point o is really how do we take that model and scale it across all of the region. And so the partnership with The Americas goal is to how do we actually connect development banks, governments, and business, and just get shit done. And help move the needle. So one of the deals that we're doing is we're doing a study for, CAF, which is one of the largest development banks in the region and trying to make some kinda hard nosed recommendations on out of the box ideas on what we can do to help small countries in Central America grow their economies. And you and I have had a number of conversations about the usefulness and sometimes uselessness of development banks  
Them: Sí,  
Me: as well as you have a very interesting perspective on how on how private capital and private companies can do what governments aren't, especially in West Africa. But let me let me give the team, Mark and Jeffrey, a a couple minutes to introduce themselves. And, E, if you can introduce yourself as well, and we can get started.  
Them: So so Jeffrey, go forward. Hi. Jeffrey Kirkman. I I led the fundraising for Harvard for a number of years in and Latin America, probably know some of or I think we probably know some people in common. I've done some work in Nigeria. About Yomeo Obukon, you probably know. Oh, yeah. I know him very well. And Cola Carem and Baba Thunde Suyoye at Helios. In London. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've done done a bunch of work. Now I'm focusing on Latin America. So, trying to figure out, you know, how can we get the get the private sector juiced maybe there's some lessons we can get from from Africa. And so you'd love to hear more. What you what you've been up to. Mhmm. And, Mark Lopez, I did twenty years in Washington DC jobs, mostly Latin America related. My my only time in Africa was a bit in Egypt and three months in which was obviously not representative of of Africa, Africa. So I'm the dumb guy on the call. But we, you know, I do a lot of multilaterals. I used to represent The US and the IDB, and I now currently do a consultancy for the president there, and we also work with the CAF. So all the networks of the multilaterals in the region of Latin America, and the foundations and private sector and NGOs. We're trying to figure out how to connect all those dots, but this is a narrow kind of focus on the on the entrepreneurial ecosystem. And I think trying to understand, okay, okay, after fifteen years of impact, and we're doing an analysis of a commercial fund, and there's a new impact fund going, how do we make this relevant for the smaller economies? How do we help recommend this relevant for the smaller economies as opposed to all the money going to and Brazil in a purely commercial sense or not. Like, don't touch it. Like, don't sort of, if you're gonna put your finger on the scale, how? Or don't put your finger on the scale. So we'd welcome your most candid feedback based on your experience in Africa in in that, you know, in that community. Yeah.  
Me: And so, e, what radicalized you, man?  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Where'd you come from? What'd you do? And and  
Them: I I promise you I am not a radical. I am just I I just an African man. Well, my my name is E. I went to Jay's School in Abuja. And then after that, I, had the good fortune of going to Canada to learn how to be a good person. At the University of Wolland. And and then after that, I came back to Lagos, Nigeria. To start building companies. I got very lucky after a bunch of false starts. I got lucky with a company called Andela. Andela, its largest talent accelerator on the continent, We trained 15% of the continent's engineers. And we placed about 2,000 odd of them in jobs with Fortune 500 companies where we managed them. And we still do that till this day. It's a billion dollar one $800,000,000 company. I left that business in 2018 2016. I started another business called Flood A Wave. Which was a payments platform, which connected the continent's many spirit payment methods so that merchants particularly large merchants like Uber, could accept different methods of payments. Without having to worry about settlement. I did that, as well for a few a few years as a founding CEO brought on board the first customers, brought on board initial funding up to 20,000,000. And then in 2018, took a leave of absence. To go into a little bit of politics and then also to birth a daughter. And then after that, I I spent some time in The States trying to understand venture capital. Ultimately decided, if you wanna do venture capital in Africa, you shouldn't be in South and move back home. And so I moved back to Nigeria right before COVID. And, started very interesting fund called the Fund for Africa's Future. So the Fund for Africa's Future is an innovation fund that focuses on working closely with founders to turn Africa's biggest challenges into global businesses. One of the first businesses we invested in, or really the first, was a business called m o o v e. And what we're trying to do with Move was solve the mobility challenge by enabling the Ubers of the world to work better. We leased cars to drivers, enabled the drivers to earn their way to ownership of those cars. It they've been been found an investor in that business was the initial check and helped grow that business. Now the business is a $1,850,000,000 business. Global business, and now into autonomous vehicles in The US. With Waymo. So that's the journey I've been on. I I think for me, I have managed to do this build a give or take $100,000,000 portfolio in Africa. Without any DFI investor. Which is crazy. We actually I have one now. AFC, which is a which is not really doesn't really act like a DFI, if you if you know it. What is the ERC? No. I don't is it Oh, the Africa Finance Corporation. I think would know it. Okay. Yeah. So it's a it's a very interesting organization, private capital arm of the Central Bank of Nigeria. It's been around since 2000 of the US, But for Yeah. It's like the TFC for The US. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Got it. Got Got Got it. So so they're my they're on wood, my only LP. With $50,000,000, but the rest of it no DFI. So that's why Jonathan says you should talk to me because I figured out how to build a fund that returns actual cash without going to beg development agencies for my future. For two years. Right? And wait. Yeah. And go slow. You can go faster. Yeah. It's great. Yeah.  
Me: So what has been your negative experience with the DFIZ?  
Them: I think the biggest challenge you have with DFIs is that they're very process driven, not outcomes driven.  
Me: Double click.  
Them: So if you ask me today and you ask me what is Africa's greatest problem?  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: I have three letter word, four letter word to tell you, which is jobs. No one's creating jobs. Now how does a DFI create jobs? It does a study. It does a the designs a fund with a consultant. Is supposed to create jobs and comes up with some rubric where you have to create a job You know? And you know, you document the job, and the job has have this and that and that. And then there's, like, a 40 page requirements document and that no one's ever tested that has no track record of where working, and doesn't even make common sense in certain circumstances. And just doesn't allow for the level of experimentation and growth that a start up requires to be able to to make it. So and then they wanna deploy a lot of capital all at once. So they'll tell you they can't wake up in the morning for less than $10,000,000, and that $10,000,000 has to be 20% of the fund tax. So basically, you have to raise a 50 or $100,000,000 fund to even wake up and talk to them. For folks like me who have a conscience, I'm wondering to myself, where am I gonna put a $100,000,000? I don't have a $100,000,000 problem. I want a $10,000,000 problem. I wanna solve a $10,000,000 problem. I don't need a $100,000,000 on my back. So that's sort of the the way the DFIs work. It's just too big to grow. You know? That's the problem.  
Me: If you had a magic wand e, what would be, like, an amazing DFI LP?  
Them: Look. I I think it's a function of stage and scale. Because I recognize some of those issues are not issues you can solve You know? But but I have to say, the lack of systems thinking makes makes me sick. You know? Like, I'll give you a practical example in Africa. Right? DFIs have funded most of the VCs. The VCs are all constipated. Right? Multiples are lower. Companies were valued super A reasonable DFC would basically say DFI would basically say, hey. Let's figure out how much we own in all these guys and do a fire sale. So we can unlock some liquidity Right? And get rid of these balances on our books. Nah. You understand? I'd rather see everything to zero. I mean, I've been saying, Jonathan, they should come talk to you and list a bunch of these companies at reasonable prices they can get most of the capital in these companies. And no one will be the worst off for it. And these companies can have their lives back and grow organically and get some capital in so they can build proper AI driven businesses. No.  
Me: Double click on  
Them: So  
Me: Double click on that. Go go ahead, Mark.  
Them: Mhmm. No problem. Well, I I I was gonna ask This is a little bit different, but so when we were working on this partnership with Central America, we had set this jobs thing. We had essentially said the same thing. You wanna stop somebody from migrating? Give them a job. You wanna improve their life? Give them a job, a job. But they always sort of figure out, you know, companies don't have a goal to create jobs. That's a constable thing. They don't wanna create jobs. They wanna see what's possible. Yeah. Exactly. Right? So we're like they were in conflict. So we were asking companies to create jobs. They're like, no. I don't want jobs. If I have to have jobs because you invest in me, that's a So what's the unlock like, so the question I'm getting to English. Much does English matter in Africa? And, like, is is that a focal point, or has that been a focal point for for training in in your work? So, I mean, in in Nigeria, which I can speak to with full confidence, as opposed to Africa, which is very big, and complicated. Nigeria is big too. Yeah. But a little less complicated for folks like me. The reality is we we are an English speaking country. English is our first language. Now here's the thing about jobs. The simple formula that governs jobs all over the world. Right? It's skill, times productive assets times infrastructure, period. Skill times productive asset times infrastructure. You wanna create an AI engineer job. You gotta train somebody to be an AI engineer. Gotta give them a laptop. And you gotta give them some Internet. You don't have those three, you're wasting your time talking to companies. Companies only hire when those three conditions are Now what I do I mean, my whole fund is based on jobs. And I just focus on these three areas. And I say, well, is your company training skill talent? Yes or no? Is your company manufacturing or producing at scale or providing at scale through lease programs or whatever whatever? Access to productive assets like cars, like laptops, like, you know, infrastructure that is required for work to happen? Internet, payments, power, space, you don't fulfill any of these three criteria, I'm not investing. Period. Yeah.  
Me: Do you have that written up into, like, a one pager e?  
Them: Lot of people have been asking me to write on me work with the video. I should get around to write up a work picture. You can ask one of doing the job.  
Me: Nope. No no worries, man.  
Them: It's okay, Jonathan. How I'll I'll write it up into a one pager and send it. But I'm just saying it's just it's very simple. So here, for example, and the challenge usually you have is that companies invest in what investors want. And investors want profits, not jobs. So if you're a job focused fund, you can't invest in what everybody else is investing in. You understand what I'm saying? Like, fintechs, by definition, don't create jobs. Take them away. AI, by definition, does increase jobs. It takes it away. So having a conversation about jobs requires you to think differently about investing. And that means you're not investing in companies. You're investing in platforms. And you're investing in bonds. In results, success driven bonds. So I wish what I wish somebody would come to me with is to say, hey. E, I see you're training AI engineers. You know what? For every AI engineer you train, that passes a certification and gets hired, I'll pay you full or $5, and I can borrow against that $45 and say, hey. I can do it for $3. And their bank that gave me the money take $2. Everybody's happy.  
Me: Interesting. So it's that kind of financial engineering that would be really helpful.  
Them: Yeah. That's  
Me: In terms of that is creating new debt products  
Them: tempo. simple.  
Me: to be able to actually give companies to find the capital that they need to operate  
Them: Either the training or the productive assets, like, for example, I wanna create I'm gonna create 500 jobs before the end of this year. Very simple. You know what I'm doing? Train drivers. Buy electric cars, because they're cheaper and more profitable. Everything is gonna cost me $10,000 per car. And driver That's 500 times 10,000 That's five five fifth 5,000,000.  
Me: Million.  
Them: Simple. It's really not that difficult.  
Me: If if you were to do  
Them: And then you you need to attack the infrastructure because see, even in that, you know, you wanna ride cars on Uber, you gotta have roads.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: You need electricity charge the damn cars. You know? You need connectivity if you're producing engineers. They need to be able to get online to do their jobs. It's just basic stuff. Someone has to fund that.  
Me: So one of the when you and I were talking a while back, you said, I tend to look at what is a government what should the government be doing  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: What should the government do? And if they're not doing it,  
Them: Yep.  
Me: I'm gonna build a company to do that job.  
Them: Yep. Yep. So, I mean, the  
Me: Can you  
Them: yeah. I mean, look. In a place like Africa, all the government has is money. The smartest people work in in African governments. They don't have any solutions to any problems. So if you're asking government to solve your problems, you're wasting your time. Because government can't solve your Government can pay for a solution to the problem, but they can't solve your problem. You know? So what I do is I say, okay. What problem is government having that it wishes it could solve? That it can't solve? Now we've got some subtleties with our governments here, you know, corruption and all that. So I try my best not to be the direct counterparty to government. But I look for a way to solve the government's problem and get paid for that. Now whether government becomes my customer indirectly or directly or or the consumer just buys the product. You know? And that's it. You know, I lease it to them or something. There's always a way because you know somebody has to create this. So when you think about a place, like, everyone's freaking out about AI. Or guess what? If you really, really, really care about your population, losing their jobs to AI, well, you should be retraining them right now. Many governments don't know how start. So here we are building the largest AI workforce training program in the world. With people who are learning AI from scratch. Nada. They don't know anything about AI. They're gonna be learning everything from zero. First year, we pay them to learn. Second year, they intern for companies. Third and fourth year, they work for us and do projects. That's how you solve AI eating jobs. That's the government's job, but the government is not gonna do it. So you gotta do it and then go sell the solution to the government. How do you pay how do you pay for that?  
Me: Wow.  
Them: Do do the companies pay you for the intern, and then they're obligated to come work for you for two years after that? Is there a long tail? Yeah. Yeah. So the companies pay me for the intern. They hire quite a number of them. And then pay me a placement fee. It costs to be just $4,000 per person. Right? Easily, an AI engineer would earn you know, 10 k a month. So it's not a big leap You understand what I'm saying. You know? Mhmm. We just need a thousand dollars a month to pay back to to educate two more people. And if we do this at incredible scale, we can keep driving those costs down. Love it.  
Me: What's what are your pain points, E, and what's helpful to you?  
Them: I you know, I mean, these days, I don't have many pain points. I just keep doing my job. You know? I just wish there's a lot of people who talk about solving problems and who say they can and all that, but I've just learned the hard way that, you know, a lot of people you know, they just don't know what the problem they're trying to solve is. You see what I mean? That that's the biggest problem.  
Me: So defining the problems.  
Them: That's it. That's the biggest problem they all have, defining the problem.  
Me: Excellent.  
Them: This defining the problem, framing the solution in as clear and direct away as possible. I think a lot of people just get a hangout of assumptions. Right? And no one's rigorously it. Doing stuff. But I'll say look, I I'll spend ten years to focus on this one problem of how do I make sure people will look like me can work And we haven't made much of a dent in the problem, but we've learned a lot. And now we're at the point where we're we're ready to massively scale. I need to create a million jobs in the next ten years. I have no choice. So and I I know what it costs to create each job, and I just gotta go and get it done.  
Me: I love it, dude. And so as putting your engineer head on is the problem specification the biggest one of the biggest challenges and then defining the solution and then implementation of the solution? Is that kind of your engineering process?  
Them: Yeah. But it's a little deeper than that. Like, you know, first of all, you gotta understand what the real problem is. Right? And then second of all, you gotta design the solution in such a way that everybody who has a solution can play. Right? As opposed to one person thinking they know everything about the solution, and they're gonna do do it on their end. Wanna build a system through which the process can be solved. You understand what I'm saying? That solves the implementation problem because those who know how to implement will do it and show their results. Very practical terms. And those who have excuses which is mostly the folks who get funded today because people who create jobs don't have time to talk at conferences. They only pick up Jonathan's call. Because he wants to invest in them a a ton ago. So yeah, you don't you don't have a lot of time to show up at all these fancy conferences around the world. They just wanna get jobs  
Me: And  
Them: jobs done. Love it.  
Me: what and I wanna be respectful of your timing, but what kind of magic wand what can I do to help you in the next three months?  
Them: That's a good question. I mean, look. So what I've done now, I I started on this fund business, Now, you know, the the fund's done very well. The DFI has come in. Part of the problem with that is, generally speaking, your less able to experiment, but, thankfully, we don't have to. Right? We've figured out a bunch of things, and the businesses are doing well. So it's my cue to go off and do something new. I'll still have operational control of the fund, but I started a new business this year within the business called Buco. So Buco builds businesses create jobs. Correct. Now what how do we do that? Very simple. We focus on these three things. Training, productive assets, infrastructure. Right? So training we're building the largest AI we're training and deploying the largest AI workforce in the world. We started with 25,000 people, took them through a proprietary psychographic selection process, ended up with 10 with 750. Of the 25,000 coming in, They started in January. I wanna scale this program. There's tons more people who can qualify. If I assume that I only need 3% of the to understand AI, to be able to fulfill the needs of the remaining 97%. Then Nigeria probably has another 30,000 people to go. At the minimum. Right? So I've got a lot of room for scale. Second of all, I mean, that's gaining productive assets. I've started with electric cars and the infrastructure that comes with them because they're generally cheap. Right? I mean, $10,000, you put a car on the road. And you can pay whoever's driving that car to drive three days a week roughly about, a $100 plus bonuses. Which is a fantastic wage in Nigeria. So flood the market with those, you know. I have agreement with both for a thousand dollars a month. Roughly. A thousand a thousand dollars a month, roughly. For 2,000 car 10,000 cars. So during that, next investing in infrastructure. I'm making a bid right now. To buy the country's, subsea cable first Subsea cable platform, which main one. They have a metro business in Lagos and in Benin. And across West Africa. I wanna take it expand that business across the country and and scale the infrastructure for connectivity. Because that unlocks so many jobs. Can't even count. So once I can do those three things, you know, I'll find other things to do. It's  
Me: I love you, brother.  
Them: It's unfortunate that I have a long life. I'm I'm still 34. So I I'm gonna be suffering like this for a long time. There's a there's a sign for a skit on that. Like, choose your misery. Like, you honestly love this misery, and so you've got it. For a long time, but you found the misery that that gives you energy. I love it. Yeah.  
Me: Well, you have a friend over here, man. Anything you need, and I'm I will ping you in a couple of weeks about maybe solving  
Them: Likewise. Yeah.  
Me: some of your guys' liquidity needs.  
Them: We we're ready now, so let let us know. We've got in a few training deals done, and you know? But but what I would say, you know, if you know anyone who wants to invest in jobs, there's a lot of conversation about jobs. World Bank's talking about jobs. I've had three conversations about jobs this week. Just let me give me three minutes with them. Thirty minutes with them to tell them the truth about how to create jobs. So they don't waste money. Because there's a bunch of rocksters who are gonna sell them all sorts of stuff. Invest in my company will create jobs. That's not how it works. You gotta create systems that create jobs. The moment it becomes cheaper to hire, people hire. They don't need to be told to hire.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: Have you talked to anyone at the World Bank about the job stuff? No. It's too bad, man. Do you want to? Yeah. I mean I would like some of the things. The president was on our previous board. I sat with him for an hour, and he talked me, like, a couple months ago. And he he's all about jobs. He's a very, get shit done guy guy. I like I like it, but, you know, he he he has to talk to someone with a track record. That's the problem. Like, a lot of people who are talking don't have the track I'm not and and I really don't mean this way. You know? I don't I mean, I mean this with every sense of humility. Every single business I've done creates jobs. Even the fintech, as students have created jobs, they ended up creating jobs. So that's all I knew. I don't know any other business I don't know how to do anything else. I just create jobs. That's all. So if you wanna talk to somebody who creates jobs, you know, we're here. We can talk about it from Lagos Nigeria, and Africa perspective and extrapolate the lessons globally. You know, I don't shop talk, so the problem is, you know, if there's no action, I just assume nothing's gonna happen, and just keep going. But I'm not gonna come to I'm not a performer. I don't not on the conference circuit. I'm I'm in Lagos.  
Me: We don't want you to perform, dude. We just want you to get shit done.  
Them: So exactly. So the  
Me: Tell you what, I will I will take the transcript of this I will make the one pager on your jobs hypothesis, and I'll just get you to approve it. So you can focus on getting shit done instead of writing stuff down.  
Them: I love it. Thank you, Jonathan. I'm a actually, need a copy of that for, like, the 1,000,000 people and maybe a blog post just before people get misled. The, I've worked with a couple different other in Nigeria that create jobs, and it's I find I'm finding your your views super interesting. So I've worked with Tony Elumelo in the Elumelo Foundation, and his you know? And and that's the he's the He loved to go into conferences, and he's the liked being on stage and you know, he's the star of every of his own movie. But but but but he's but, you know, he has pledged, you know, to he gives these grants all across the continent to entrepreneurs to start So that's another, you know, another path. Yep. I've also worked with Yeah. I I love them for it. I love him for it, but I have to be honest. The the problem with that approach is it's really scattered brain. Right? You're invest you're just you're just praying and praying. That something happens. Right? And if you have a goal of creating a million jobs, it's gonna take you a lot of money to get there. Yes. So so I've also worked with a a start up university in Lagos. Don't know if you know NUTM, the med gym I'm actually on the board of NUTM's foundation. Okay. So And I sponsor, like, 10 kids in NETM. So I've I've worked with so I've worked with on on Yes. He knows me very well. You can you can ask him about me. And, you know, that's another model. I so I'm glad you're on the board because, you know, that's you know Yeah. I like it. Yeah. I I like universe like them. Question is whether you do you provide a certificate or a micro credential or does this idea not even matter, or is it just the job that you care about? Or do That's it. For for now, it's a yeah. You know, I would say we we we deliver jobs and our certificates. Right? The the truth of the matter is, you know, even with NETM, I'm trying to reject their thinking about this, and they are green because they're very progressive people. Yeah. We're saying, look. You know, all this you're gonna train these highly capable young people. And you're not gonna give them capital to start a business. What's the point? You know? They gotta go join you on employment line or or you're not even gonna help them to actually actively manage their careers. You're gonna spend $20,000 a year $20,000 over over now it's two year one year. Right? Or $40,000 over four years. And even what you're teaching, I mean, for me, I had to push them on the engineering piece. I was like, look. If we can't waste the bachelor's degrees on history, man. It's like, are you gonna build buildings and do civil engineering and do architecture and build infrastructure that can actually create jobs. And so there's a lot of thinking that has to be done, but it's difficult for them because you know, that kind of university is like an MIT level, Harvard level, institution. Right? They should be properly funded to do that work. Should be able to build massive engineering. Like, I went to the Dangota refinery. He's creating a lot of job. I grew in Dangota refinery last week, Saturday. And he took me around himself, you know, with a few other folks from he took me around himself with a few other folks And the the honest truth, you know, the honest truth, Jeff, is that he's he's hired people from all over the world. But there are not many Africans there. There are not many Nigerians who work there. And yet, there's a lot of young people who need jobs. And he says, look. I can't afford I need this refinery to run. So I'm gonna do my best, but I need this refinery to run. So there's a lot of work to do there. Yes.  
Me: Love it.  
Them: Well, it's if we can be helpful to anything you're you're doing, please let us know. Oh, absolutely. You know, we're focusing on Central America right now, but the world's getting smaller. Well, do you do the as well? Yes. It's part of our world. Yes. We're less deep there, but we have some some really good networks that are very deep there. The former heads of, Caribbean Development Bank and that sort of stuff. But yeah. Well, I'll see this. Right? And I can be, on a in saying this, but please pardon me. I'm interested anywhere there's black people. You've been to Colombia? That's that's what I was gonna say. Now my only issue is I only know English. So I just try to work where I can be helpful. But if you find people who speak other languages and are gonna focus on black people. I'll I'll gladly show them my whole playbook. I mean, I'll show anybody my playbook. Anyway, but I'm just saying that I I wanna be everywhere black people are. I love it. That's the most important thing. So do you do you have you worked with Yemi Cardoso? No. I I haven't. I haven't. That that's the central bank governor. I I haven't. Okay. It's a hard man to reach. It's a for good reason. He's a great guy, actually. Yeah. Yeah. He he host he hosted me in his house when I was in Lagos. But you know, speaking of where black people are, so his his he has he's has Brazilian black Brazilian roots. Yeah. Going so, you know, so it was like, a diaspora going crossing the Completely. The ocean. Couple times, and he was telling me the whole story of the Yes. You know, the his grand his grandfather you know, went from her great grandfather went from Africa to Brazil and then back And so interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I mean, for those those, that very no. It's not a Nigerian name. It's unfortunately name. Yeah. It's a Yeah. Yeah. Very No. He's, yeah, he's Farou. Which is a very special people.  
Me: So connections  
Them: But you're getting money from the Central Bank. I mean, the right? The the Well, so the central bank twenty five years ago set up something called the AFC. So I'm I'm getting money from the AFC. So the AFC's, 60% owned by the Central Bank, but now has a bunch of shareholders from across the continent. That's where I'm getting money from. They're very commercial. Which is why I like to work with them. Yeah. But I, you know, I work with them on a lot of stuff. Mhmm. Well, that seems like a good I mean, that seems like a good piece of the government then. That's that's thinking in that's the thing that's very professional. They're very, you know they're very forward thinking. So Myla is an amazing leader.  
Me: part part of  
Them: Yeah. So I I mean, I don't just pick any any random DFI. You know? Because Yeah.  
Me: part of what we're  
Them: Yeah. I just  
Me: part of what we've been asked to do is to tell the calf what a good limited partner and what a good DFI acts like. Could you introduce this to one or two people there?  
Them: Yeah. Yeah. Sure. I will  
Me: That  
Them: I will with pleasure. I love to introduce them to folks. Yeah. They're very, you know, they're very for their skill, they're extremely entrepreneurial. For their skill. You know? I've never seen anything like it. They build they build free zones. They build they build the Lobito Corridor train was entirely them during the project origination. I mean, it's insane. It's a $17,000,000,000 company. That acts like it's a start up.  
Me: That's fantastic. I I will I'll send you an intro request, and I'll I'll  
Them: Yeah. Please. And I'll do I'll loop in  
Me: ask it in the way and let let me know when we can go there. And then if we can help you build your network of the  
Them: Yeah. No. No. It's fine. Yeah. Well, I'm in Barbados.  
Me: let us know.  
Them: Where I'm also helping out. Right? So you know, I would love I'd love to be able to get something done in particularly on the job site. Now, really, for me, the interest with Barbados is beyond jobs in Barbados. Just 240,000 people, but really about Barbados' agent. And they're becoming an interesting place for people to move to physically. They're the only people in the world saying we need more Africans. But you know, you have to responsibly do that because and create jobs in the process. Right? Because, you know, you don't want so I always thought about it like a black Singapore. You know what I mean? So you can, like, you need to build out the infrastructure, and you build out the the the you know? There needs to be housing. There needs to be training. There needs to be they have a fantastic hospitality culture, and they they're ready for skill. They're primed for skill. The prime minister is a amazing force of nature. And I'm quite close to her. So that's if you were doing any work in Barbados, I wanna be part of it.  
Me: Excellent. Well, thank you. I know that we're way over time, E, but thank you  
Them: Yes. We are.  
Me: so much for being so generous, mate.  
Them: No. All all good, Jonathan. You know anything for you? You wrote me a safe check when very few people would. So I gotta prioritize your calls. I'll see you.  
Me: My pleasure, brother. Keep doing a lot of work.  
Them: Thank you so much. Nice to meet you. Bye bye. Nice to meet you. Bye. Amazing. Is this file I'm gonna remove that. Yeah. Wow. It is guys.