Meeting Title: PFA y Crack the Code: Estrategia de Innovación Educativa en América Latina
Date: Feb 27


Transcript:
 
Them: All of these. If we can, do you mind? Am I in? No. Go ahead. Okay. Yeah. So Well, Mark's doing that. Maybe we do a quick round of introductions on our side because I think that'll be more for Jeffrey. Mari, I think I told you a little bit about Partnership for Americas. Yes. I spoke to Mark some years back. I don't know if you when you did that round table. Mhmm. Yes. And so, Mark, do you wanna kick us off in terms of what you guys are doing with PFA as opposed to partnership with Central America and then we can introduce Nat, Enrigo, and then Maria will talk about what radicalized you and what you're doing and and what's helpful to you. Perfect. Mister Lopez. No. Thanks, Jonathan. Yeah. Great to see you, Maria. I think so I don't remember the details, but I have a sense of, like, which what we talked about, you know, the last round. But, essentially, you know, we we thought the PCA model made a lot of sense and we wanted to build on it and expand the geography So we didn't wanna be limited to El Salvador, non Honduras. We want at least Colombia through Mexico, probably through Ecuador, whatever. So and then, like, some internal housekeeping around governance and business model and distance from the US administration. So PCA was I think, over indexed on the vice president's office, and we wanted to make that we were bipartisan and nonpartisan in the last twenty years. We built that on the team you're seeing as part of that. And then in conversation with PCA, they decided to essentially close their doors, and we absorbed them. As an organization. So we got, Rigo and Andrea and Ambassador Arriaga on our team and some seed funding to essentially transition PCA into PFA. So that now we have a nonpartisan permanent standalone organization with unlimited sort of geographic reach across Latin America focused mostly on Colombia through Mexico at the moment for very reasons that we can discuss. But so that's what we've built. And so we have the seed funding and some staff from the initial transition from PCA, and we have a a project with CAF to do some investment analysis in Honduras Guatemala, Costa Rica, and The Dominican Republic. As well as an analysis of an investment fund that they've had for twenty years called Fide, as they look to kind of the next chapter of that, as well as they look to a new impact fund that they're designing with another group. So we're up to the races. Not all of us are full time. I think some of us are part time and have day jobs. Looking to try to build this into a full time effort. And looking to be opportunistic in how to scale big and bold ideas with partners in the corporate sector across the region, banks, all the usual suspects, philanthropy, multilaterals, etcetera. But also kind of startups and ed techs and fintech and all the like. So I'll stop there. Perfect. Amazing. Nati, Rigo?  
Me: Hola, María, ¿cómo estás? Creo que nos conocimos en una hace un tiempo para h f capital. Estoy trabajando hace un año y medio con Jonathan, y, bueno,  
Them: Oh, wow.  
Me: recientemente al al proyecto de PFA.  
Them: Perfecto. Un gusto. Hola, María, mucho gusto, Rigoberto Romero. Estoy para con PFA, y estoy basado en Honduras. Y, pues, experiencia tiene que ver con DFIs, con multilaterales para el desarrollo, como Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica, donde administra un fondo de cincuenta menos de dólares. Y adicionalmente, desde el lado del gobierno, del lado del sector regulatorio, en el en el tema de endeudamiento público, colocación de instrumentos financieros en los mercados de capitales a nivel global, Y, bueno, ahora me encuentro en PFA aquí, colaborando en en este espacio. Buenísimo, súper. En María, es práctica, right? Did I remember? I'm I'm tica Colombian. I'm a mixture. Yes. So who are you? What are you doing and what radicalizes? Give you guys an update. So, basically, crack the code red. Evolved a lot in the past few years. We're now a two g company. So we're a for profit social impact company. That partners and signs contracts with local governments mainly right now in Colombia. So, basically, we sign agreements with mayors and governors all over the country. And what we do is we become a mandatory class of the public schools curriculum in these cities. So, basically, if you remember, Crack the Code is a tech and AI digital skill company for for teens or young adults. So, basically, our objective is for high school students to graduate high school and have a more successful postsecondary transition. Whether it is to jobs, to boot camps, to you know, for your college, technical education, whatever they want. But we want students to get the education that companies require in high school. No? Given desertion rates in Latin America are so high, and the informal economies are so big, like 50% of the countries on average. We want students to be able to get formal employment thanks to skills they get in school. Okay? So, basically, it's in the new vision of this new world, traditional four year college is not realistic. It doesn't make sense for the majority of these students. So then we're telling them, listen. Get these tools in high school, and then transition to a internship, to a technical degree, or to a boot camp, something that will make you productive. 70% of our high school students that graduate and we place in jobs are the first generation of formal workers in their families, in their households, 70% of them. So you know, for them, that is life changing. They're able to get access to credit, and they're, you know, formal members of the employment. They get social benefits in their jobs, that benefits their whole families, and so on. So, basically, what we do is the local governments hire us to become a mandatory class in the curriculum. We do basically live online classes. And let me show you this. This deck that I have over here. I can send this to you. There. Here. So, basically, we are we fold on on generating, social mobility thanks to tech and AI. By working with government and being able to become part of the most impoverished high schools in the country or public schools in the whole country. So we we focus on doing four main things. First, we upgrade the local mandatory curriculum with relevant work related content. So we teach AI data and programming throughout the last three years of high school. And, basically, what we wanna these students to become is what they call AI generalists. No? So students that not necessarily need to go to a tech team, but they can work in marketing, in finance, in accounting, So they're gonna be great entry level workers. With all the digital skills that they need to grow inside those roles. Then the problem, you know, we we we encountered was that governments were like, amazing. I wanna do this with you, but we don't have computers or Internet. So what I do is I fundraise locally to get funds to purchase and donate the computers and the Internet. So right now, I pay the monthly Internet bill of 53 public schools in Colombia. Literally. On a monthly basis. So, basically, I tell the governments, listen. I'll take care of it. You know? On the private side, I'm gonna find the funds to get the computers. I'm gonna get the money to get the the Internet. I'll solve these, like, structural infrastructure issues that you have that them are very hard to solve and very takes a long time to solve. So I put Lenovo, HP, like, all the computer companies to compete, and I buy literally thousands of computers, and I donate them to the schools. So given I solve that problem, they're able to invest in education. ¿No?, which all the local governments in their plan de gobierno have a budget for for formación en habilidades digitales. They all of it, they all of them have it there, but they don't end up executing that budget because there's no computers. No? So then the third thing that we do is we train our teachers. So we train the public school teacher so that they can eventually teach our course. So when we start, our our virtual teachers teach the class. Let me find some some pictures here. So here are the computers that we dominate. As you can see in this picture over there with the blue black black black background. That is one of our virtual teachers. So in the beginning when we start, we teach the classes virtually as you can see there. But as we train the public schools teacher, we start transferring that responsibility to the school's teacher. No? So that's, we call this the programa de transferencia I have it around here. Let me find it. I don't think it's here. I I can send it to you, but it's el un programa de transferencia de conocimiento, where we slowly train the teacher and we delegate the responsibility to them to teach the content. With English, we've seen that even if the teachers are trained, it's so hard, so technical for them, they don't end up teaching well. That's why we teach it ourselves. We accompany the teacher, and, eventually, we we give them like, progressively the responsibility to teach all of the curriculum. We are also developing our we have launched our AI Copilot So, eventually, the teacher will teach it with our Copilot. We're developing our own LLM with over eighty thousand hours of recorded classes that we have from these, like, past five years. So we have great data to feed our LLM so that our students can use our AI Copilot and the teacher. No? So we're also we innovate in our curriculum, but also in how we teach it so that they use and apply what we teach them in terms of AI. In how they learn. Okay? And then finally, we help them we connect students with post postsecondary opportunities. So we just recently launched last year our, like, employment plan It's called tu futuro punto l a. We compiled over 1,300 job job postings, job opportunities, technical education scholarships, university scholarships, boot camp scholarships, so that students that, you know, cannot afford traditional college and don't know what to do and are at risk of becoming in informal and unemployed, they can apply to those opportunities through us. So since the first day of classes, we start asking them, what are you gonna do when you when you graduate? No? So we start training them in in in that. So what we're doing is we we redefining the entry level role in the AI and tech era, no, which is what we call the AI generalist role so that that will generate social mobility opportunities to our students. So in Colombia, we're we're right now, we have 23,000 active public school students where we signed already with five big local governments, and we're about to sign with the last two, so we're gonna close this year with 30,000 public school students that are literally taking mandatory two hours a week with us of class throughout the whole year. Now this is our third year with some of these governments. And now we're what we're doing is course, we do a whole impact measurement strategy and track learning. We have it here. Learning improvement, employability results, and community impact. What we're doing is now, like, doing a case study so that we start replicating this in other countries in Latin America. It's basically social innovation. How do we how do we work with the private sector to solve this problems that are very hard to solve for the government. And how do we work with the government to achieve scale and access to the students that need it the most? Because if it's not with the government, we cannot reach these public school students who are the ones that need it the most. No? So that's why we're we're working with both. You know? It's been, like, three or four years that we've signed directly this local contracts with the government. We're doing really well, thankfully. We're now in talk with the new minister of education in Bolivia. So we're ideally launching in the next month and a half a program with 3,000 students over there. They're actually talking with with the CAF to see if they get funding for that. And then I'm been very interesting also to speak with the government of El Salvador I met with in the consulate in Washington two weeks ago. Because they're doing a lot of innovative things in in the education space. And you know, they're working with the with the XAI for, like, a copilot for students. But I think these employability component for their high school students will be very interesting as well. So this is sort of a long summary. I can send you this presentation and you know, much more information. But I think it's very to what you guys are doing because we work with the private and the public and is demonstrating how we can work with both and solve many problems at the at the end of the day. No? So don't know if you have any questions after radicalize you. Why are you doing this? Sometimes, I don't understand. Why am I doing this, and why right now? Our Colombia is a disaster. Every day, there's, like, a new bomb of, like, change announced. More taxes every day. Like, it's crazy. But you know, I think I'm just so passionate about it. And I'm finally like, right now, 23,000 students, like, we're there. We're achieving impact, scale, and sustainability for our business. So which is something these are our three pillars. Impact, scale, and sustainability. That's why we're a for for profit because we need to make this work long term. We can't be relying on donate and grams. We need to fix this for the long term. So but, yeah, sometimes I think I'm a little bit crazy to me doing this. Why don't you go to the rich school? No. Have more money to pay. No. There's I can talk about this for hours. I I did try to do that years ago, but, honestly, those kids are gonna be fine. Whether they get this education or not, you know, they'll be fine. And secondly, the the decision makers in those schools make all the wrong questions. No? They ask the wrong questions, and they don't have the right incentive. So you know, the way to achieve impact and to you know, think about it. Who is thinking about the eight about these 14 to 18 year olds in these barrios. ¿Quién piensan ellos? Nobody. They've been completely alienized, and that's why there's been so many social uprisings. Because they're completely forgotten. So so, you know, they have to join gangs and do all this they have no other option. But if we start literally catering to what they need be able to have more prosperous futures, then everything's ideally, in my opinion. Things are gonna start changing. No? So that's why our whole solution is focused on giving them the tools they need. We call it autonomia o We want them to be autonomous and independent into deciding what to do with their lives, how to occupy their time, how to be productive, so that they're formal, happy members of productive members of of society. What's your biggest pain in the ass? What keeps you up at night? I Think every day is something different. So yesterday, Pedro announced a new tax. That could last night. Rigo? Yeah. Just a quick question, Maria. In terms of the governance in and the way that you work with with these schools and the ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education that's decentralized and within these municipalities and all that. Right? My my question is, the way that you're working with the municipalities is is through a cooperation agreement or a a commercial contract. Okay. That's a great question. So we don't work at all with the Ministry of Education. So the good thing about Colombia, and I think Mexico is the same, Peru is not like this, So there's a lot of states, local states, let's say, cities have a lot of independence They have their own secretaries of education. So the secretary of education even I would say the principals of each school have flexibility as to, like, what they wanna, like, double down. They have to follow a guideline of a curriculum, but they do have some wiggle room as to what they wanna double down on in terms of academics. No? So, for example, in Peru, they have this course, this elective that it's called preparación para el empleo. They used to teach, like, how to how to sew, how, like, mechanics. So in Peru, we used to get those those slots in the curriculum. In Colombia, depends on the school. Some give us one of English one of math or one of, like, literature. But each director, each principal has the ability to give us these two hours a week. At first, it was a little bit hard, but when they hear, they're gonna get 35 computers. A TV, headsets. They're gonna get a completely new computer lab. They say, I'll make it work. We have a wait waiting list of, like, 75 schools that wanna be part of our program. So they get on board. They find a way. So that's that makes it easy. Then as to to your question on the type of contract. We literally sign well, there's two types of contracts that we sign. One, depending on the the government, It's called un contrato de servicios, y es un por la ley de ciencia y tecnología. So, in Colombia there's a law called the ley de y tecnología, that allows contratación directa So, they pay us for our services, but we do put usually, it's a seventy thirty split So 70% of the contract is they they pay for the services for the classes. And my 30% is in computers, in equipment. So it's like un como collaborate in this technology program, I'm gonna put 30%, which will go towards computers, Internet, and all of that, like infrastructure, and you'll pay for classes. So that's when we sign that's one type of contract. And then there's another type of contract with some that we sent with some governments. It's with we we incorporated a foundation because in in Colombia, you can for the the more, like, for the licitaciones, ¿no? There's a specific type of contract for fundaciones, for foundations, called convenio de colaboración. ¿No? Where the local government says, I wanna invest in formación habilidades digitales, so they do like a contest. And fundaciones can bid, ¿no?, and present their their projects. But we also have to put the 30%, at least. No? So we compete. We put the 30%. They put the 70%. Our 30% is used for infrastructure, for technology. And that's how we are able to sign directly with each with the different governments. Yeah. Thank you for the response, Maria. I just I just wanted to have to have it in mind because I think that what you're doing is very important for for the schools. And and and I wouldn't I mean, I'm I'm I'm pretty sure that you have a waiting list in in in in this type of you know, this type of projects. And and, you know, I'm from Honduras. And and our countries need these type of projects. Yes. Independently, if it's our front foundations or or companies, Right? So I I was just wanted to have it clear in my mind. You know, making my mind in my mind a a road map to to bring a a company like yours to communities in in in these countries. Thank you. Something something that helped us a lot because to be able to come to get hired, let's say, by a government, there's, like, each each country and city has a a long list of requirements, but, usually, they have requirements as to amount of years trabajando, ¿no? Years of experience at the company, amount of contracts executed, and amount and in in dollar value, and also amount of contracts executed in, like, how many contracts. No? So, thankfully, because we started, like, eight, nine years ago in Peru, we have, like we had all the requirements. We've checked all the boxes. And when when we started or where we when we incorporated our company in Colombia, which was, like, three years ago, we structured our our company in a way where the Peruvian one was the majority owner of the Colombian. So the Colombian was able to inherit all the experience of the Peruvian one, and that's why we have what they call in in licitaciones, idoneidad. ¿No? Which is in these competitions how they assign the the let's say, the the programs. We had we checked all the boxes of experience, of executed. Like, we we checked everything really well so that we were able to to win those contracts. No? So I think when we start new in new countries, international companies are able to bid or to win those programs. But they need esa idoneidad, which comes with experience and and money executed contracts. That we're we have everything to prove that. No? But but, yeah, we have to look at it country by country to find how to do it. So what what's your cost per student? Is there is there anything on financial you could share? And I'm curious more about the the conversion from nonprofit, I guess, to for profit because why more there? Is it that it's facilitate the Alisitacion process Or because presumably, could still charge, and then you're you're for profit yet you're asking for donations locally So they're giving you know, they're you have a private company subsidizing the bottom line of another private for profit company. I assume the conversation is a little different. Just curious about that. By the way, like, amazing work, and congrats Like, it sounds really hard. You know? It just sounds like it's so romantic complicado y difícil y hay supervalor. Oh, sorry. The last question since I'm talking English language, does that have a role in any of this, or are you just doing it all in Spanish? Great question. So cost per student, I would say on average, it's around $130 per student per year. Okay? Which, ideally, when we use our biggest or highest is our live teachers. But when we are leaving the classroom and we're giving our teachers our our training and co and giving them our Copilot and our platform, that's gonna go down, like, half. So we wanna be we wanna reduce our cost to the max so that we each government can increase their coverage. Our goal is to have a 100% coverage of high school students in each city. That's our goal. So right now, yeah, it's around a 130 with taxes and all of that. And then we're looking to to, hopefully, like, this year start you know, halving that as we roll out our our copilot. Then the structure of the fundación and the is a great question. So, basically, right now, the private company in Peru o en Colombia, they own all of our software and our technology. Okay? So when the when we have to use the the foundation, and it's only when we have to. No? When we have to use the foundation to sign these contracts, the foundation has to hire the license from the for profit company. Okay? So the fundación collects the revenue per student, let's say, from each project, But let's say from those a $130, let's say, 50 has to go towards the license, and the private companies are the owners of the Okay? Because we have all the developers, the IP, everything. So the foundation sends has to pay the bill per student to the South. No? The only situation where the foundation gets grants is when locally, we receive donations from private companies to purchase the computers and the Internet. Okay? So if, for example, in Barranquilla right now, we're growing we started 3,000 students in 2024 last year 8,000, this year almost 14,000 in Barranquilla. Ok? So this year we're gonna be working in 53 schools. So what we do is we work with fundación Santo Domingo, triple a, like, Argos, Bavaria, big, big companies in each region. We work with the biggest like, local players, the biggest companies, and they give us the grants They give it to the foundation, and then the foundation literally not even revenue for us. We get the, I know, the $100,000 we literally pay Lenovo for the computers, and we literally donate it to each school. So it's not even, like, income for us. We just, like, gestionamos el dinero, es como un mandato de donación. That's how we call it, un mandato. So, they give us the mandate, ok, you this money to buy the computers. Okay? So we get the money, we buy the computers, and we donate the the the the computers and the engineers. So the foundation, that's how we use the foundation. We do have some staff in the foundation because in some projects where the foundation exit signs, the con the the the program, they require, like, a project manager, like, certain specific roles, so they're by the foundation. But, yeah, that's how usually I would do it works. The private foundation gets the the licensing fee per student, and that's how this sociedad becomes sustainable and profitable. Necesitas para escalar a miles de escuelas? I mean, we're ready. What we need is, you know, the hardest thing is for for to find the governments that are ready to do this. Because the ones that we work with right now, we we did something that worked really well. We generated FOMO amongst mayors in Colombia. So the the boldest one is  
Me: Sí. Sí, sí, ahí salgo.  
Them: Alejandro Charin Barranquilla. He's super bold, aggressive. He has a visionary. He's like, okay. Let's do 3,000 right off the bat. Then heard, I'm like, oh, and he's like, okay. Let's do 2,000. So we need leaders that are wanna make a bold bet You know? These these structural problems that we solve that I just showed you, like, changing the logo curriculum, everybody always says that's impossible do. That's impossible. No. It's not impossible.  
Me: Muchas gracias, de  
Them: You just need well, when there's a will, there's a way. There's a way always. And we found it. We just need governments that are ready to do this and are bold. And for them, you know, as I said, I would say 90% of them right now, en su plan de gobierno, tienen budget para formación en habilidades digitales. You know, it's all everybody talks about. But how do they execute that if there's no computers? So that's why, okay, we'll solve it from the private sector. We'll solve it for you. So, yeah, I we we're, like I said, talking to Bolivia, El Salvador. So governments that are ready to do this, that are super ¿no? Great executors were superfast and quick, We're all over Latin America. We have team all over. But we need to to work with whoever's ready to to do it and, you know, we are ready because we already have the thousands of students of experience. What are your capital needs? Right now, we're always looking for foundations or multinational organizations that will give us grants for the computers. So I think, you know, that's that's something that I think with time should be solved by the the government itself. Because, basically, we're doing what they should be doing. Right? So we're always looking for that type of capital. And then on the other hand, we right now, we're not looking for equity. We we're trying to get, like, a good bridge loan, like, because what's happening is, as you know, we've never haven't had an issue with a payment from a local government. But there's usually delays. No? So for example, in December, we the last factura of 2025 to a big project, and it took two months for them to pay. No? So those, like, I would say, like, bridge funding in between to manage cash flow, basically. K. So you need connections to Ballermeyer Yes. And you need connections. Baller presidents, Baller mayors, and you need connections to foundations who are interested in providing laptops and Internet to schools and barrios Exactly. You need a line of credit. Yes. Very well summarized. Okay. And I we're a couple minutes over, but would you be open to, like, some sort of win win with another nonprofit? Yeah. For sure. For sure. I wanna be respectful of everybody's time, questions, comments, concerns, complaints. I can Oh, complaints. Congrats. Amazing. Yeah. You. Thank you. Yes. We're happy. We're excited. I like I said, not easy, but, you you know, seeing that it's growing and the results are there is basically the the feel we have. No? I can send you the presentation and then sort of a a summary on our results and and what we do. I'm also doing a small pilot in Miami with Miami County Public Schools because you're trying to upgrade the technical degrees that they offer here. Because they're super old school, so we're upgrading, like, the technical medical assistant degree the dual search the diesel engine technician, the plumbing, technician, because all these technical degrees, I believe, are the future. But they need to be upgraded. So anything Latin America and and US, we're ready to go. Sorry. Forgot about English. Oh, sorry. So, yeah, our classes are in Spanish. In Latin America, but the all the platforms that they use are in English. So, basically, what we're trying to do is a leer and write in English as they use all these platforms. But, yeah, that's a component that we're gonna have to figure out at some point. Some governments have better English than others, but, yeah, you know, right now, we can't we don't have space or room to incorporate English, but it's something we're trying No. No. Totally. To indirectly whether you whether you need it. Like, do you not need it? Like, So right now for since for this for this, AI generalist role that we're preparando, we don't need it because we want them to we're connecting them to local industries. Jobs. So we have guys that go to, I don't know, factories and and start testing robotics or digital marketing campaigns. So they don't need English for these jobs that they're getting. Some are a lot of them are going to call centers. And those are the ones that need to have the highest English grade. So we filter them by calificación de inglés and those are the ones we send to the call centers. But but, yeah, right now, we're not focusing on English. Cool. Okay? Got it. Thank you. I wanna be respectful of everybody's time, but Maria, siempre know what a giant pain in the ass has been, so thank you for doing what you're doing. I am I'm here. Excited, happy, and happy to help you guys. You know, with brainstorming, whatever it is that you need. I'll send you our information. But if you have any ideas for us as well, happy to hear them. Vale. Gracias, María. Un abrazo. You. Have a great day.