Meeting Title: Partnership for the Americas: CAF impact investing strategy with Adi
Date: Feb 13


Transcript:
 
Them: Hello? Oops. I'm not hearing you. Ahora sí. Marc, Natasha, how are you guys?  
Me: How are you?  
Them: Where are you where are you where are you, Mark? Are you here in DC? I'm based I'm based in New York. Yeah. I bought you. So That that's your town. Yeah. I'm right here. Yeah. Yeah. This is from Roslyn. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah. Nice to meet you. This is Jeffrey. How do you do you're in a talk Right? Or you know of each other? You know each other well? Or yeah. Good time, man. Good to meet you.  
Me: Just once, I was the platform manager at Kale Ventures.  
Them: Ah, okay. Okay. Ah, that's why your name was  
Me: And I CEO in  
Them: okay. Okay. You're okay. With Rebecca Tommy. Okay.  
Me: Yes.  
Them: Okay. Well, I thought I thought we'd gang up on you. We could speak in Spanish if you want. Jeffrey is a colleague that has done some of this work that you're talking about in The US. And some projects. But Cool. Yeah. I've We can gossip about IDB too, but I'm sure I would agree with whatever you have. But mean, I'm just No. That's fine. I just wanted to let you know because I saw you were still working there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So let me give you the the quick background. So Yeah. We so I have a we all have day jobs. But we've launched this organization called the partnership for the Americas. Yeah. Where we're trying to basically build out investment into into the America. Into the region, into Latin America and The Caribbean. But we sort of talk about the whole region. You know, we're two gringos and one Argentina. And when there's, like, seven of us total. But we've all done various parts of development, banking, finance, development, yada yada for for for twenty years. Senior team with a lots of connections and experience, and we wanna sort of translate that through, five zero one c three model and bring investment into, into the region. So we've got, you know, seed funding and maybe see in our website, have executive advisers and senior advisers and whatnot. But this is all an idea that came from a previous organization called the for Central America. Yeah. Yeah. That you that you then know. Yeah. I was the president and COO there, and so, essentially, the experience there was, hey. This model works. We wanna keep serving as the connectors. To bring scaled efforts together across primarily private sectors, sometimes philanthropy, multilaterals, you know, foundation academia, etcetera, and kind of make things happen. So we have funding from, CAF the Development Bank Yep. As well as seed funding for a particular project, which is where this question with you came in. But, also, we have we have seed funding for some of our employees when we absorb the for Central America. So we absorb that other organization, so we have them, and we have seed funding. And on the calf work, we're essentially looking at entrepreneurial ecosystems in Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, and The Dominican Republic. But then we're also looking at, some sort of smaller markets. Also looking at a performance analysis of the fund, which is a fund that the cap has, which is a permanent commercially oriented BC fund. But Natasha mentioned your name, and I pinged you on LinkedIn. And sounds like you're doing super interesting stuff, I think, based in Argentina, but you tell me if but but but, yeah, I would love to hear a little bit about your work and you and and, and see if we can help and or use you as essentially a sounding board for what we're trying to do on the research side of CAF and maybe in a subsequent conversation in a month for half an hour every time. If you're able, to just get get your sense on, you know, what what should a development bank like the CAF think about doing in those smaller markets in the context as they launch and then an impact fund, which they're in the process of, as well as they rethink their commercial investment vehicle. Wow. Okay. Cool. That's all. Yeah. Of course. So I I work at the at the IDV as a senior specialist in trade and investment And in on the trade side, that was from 2010 to 2017, 2018. Here in DC where where I lived, but because I came back. I learned about the concepts of pool deserts, which is very well known in The US. But in Latin America, that's not a category that you come across. In fact, the IDV only published the first paper. On food deserts in Argentina at my initiative in, like, 2022. So so that's that's that was a surprise to me. But you know, so I I started a nonprofit. That basically digitize what many organizations like Feeding America or food banks quite successfully do already in in this country. But what I saw in Latin America was that there were food banks and there were NGOs. But they didn't a, they did not rely. On defective or short expiration products, so they didn't have a circular model. And b, they they don't have the money needed to have systems in in in in in place. So I was like, okay. I'm gonna I'm gonna solve that part, the part where the ecosystem of food distribution to the poor in Latin America. Needs needs an upgrade. So I started the NGO. And then, one day, we won the Innovation Award or something, and it was half 1,000,000 and it was a good money. And and and I and I needed to decide what I was gonna do, and that's when if Mauricio made sure made my decision easy. So I left, and I and I started full time as CEO of the organization. Which then turned into a for profit company and then raised $20,000,000 in venture capital. The reason why we went from a nonprofit to a for profit was strictly regulatory. In Argentina, where we started, I'm from Uruguay, but I started in Argentina because it was easier. It's market size. You know? And and work culture. They're very similar as as Natasha knows. You can't be an NGO and operate a a a a commercial operation as a food distribution. In this country, I'm I'm here in DC. You see supermarkets that are NGOs, movie theaters, theaters, you name it. But in Latin America, there is a fundamental barrier whereby nonprofits cannot on services. Or products for that matter. Because of that, we turn into a for profit. We raise a lot of capital, and we scaled a lot. We scaled in Argentina and in Mexico. And then we began licensing the technology we used to operate to the UN World Food Program. And that that technology is powering today's school meals programs across Guatemala, in El Salvador. In Ecuador. It's it's in the millions of people right now. That are being that are benefiting the benefited by the company. The company is now undergoing a very like, deep restructure for the one part because I moved back to the Washington DC because my wife is a human rights lawyer here, and she meets to be here. And you and and you can imagine how busy she she's now today with ice and all. She's she's litigating those cases. But, also, because we are we we notice that the market market stride up and so we need to do a a a a model. And so we we we are only now doing technology licensing to existing institution as opposed to what we used to do, which was operate at DoorDash basically in slumps. Across Das my story is a story where we scaled up to the point where financial markets had the stomach to take it, and now we're coming back to we're we're we're we're we're shrinking again to to the point where we can refinancially sustainable in equilibrium and much less impact. And and it's clear that the the main downside of this is that because of a because we are not there anymore delivering food, there are people in food deserts that are paying higher prices for food items. Because there is we we were not we we were not able to make a convincing case to the unreasoned horroids of this world because that's how big we got. And and we needed a $100,000,000 to escape. So do we go to the IDV? No. But because Fabrizio made I didn't. But we did go to the US Development Financing Corporation, which was you know, created by Trump administration, with a with a clear mandate to substitute OPIC, and they took us in. And, but they do lending. And lending is a is a is it's is an instrument that we we you have to be very careful when you lend money to companies that need to burn capital to grow because you will always be unprofitable. And so it's it's it's and it's we don't we are not taking we're we're trying to avoid taking additional loans because they are unsecured nobody wins. And in equity, even though we raised from a ton of funds, there's a myriad of them. We have over 90 investors, equity investors in the company. They include funds from Plug and Play Ventures in California. All the way to the ELEA Foundation for Ethics globalization in Switzerland, to Calais Ventures in in in Venture Capital is a myriad. And I came to the conclusion that impact funds and VCs are very similar. The only thing that they are very different is in the way they like to be called. But the questions are pretty much the same. How long do you think where it will take you to exit? What is the multiple on the evaluation? That you can expect based on what business plan and what multiples of your revenue or EBITDA. And so I I found busy cap to be more patient sometimes because they have long because patience depends on how long the cycle of your VC fund is and how long until you need to recoup or return the capital to your investors, but the dynamics are the same. So yeah, I think there's a lot to to to I mean, yeah, we I could go for hours. In fact, the the the name of my book is gonna be impact. It's a trademark. Because we don't know yet what's impact, what's impact. We don't know. And so if you guys are advising the largest or one of the largest relevant banks in the region and you're designing with them, an impact investing arm we need to be very careful and particularly from the perspective of the entrepreneurs, because I can I'm happy to bring on a to a table a 100 of them, all of us who raised capital from these impacts, and we cannot tell you the things that worked and the things that work. We're not looking to raise capital right now because the capital markets have dried up to the point that we we want to stay profitable. And that all that includes for example, our latest investor is Technoserv, which we you all know. And and I think nobody can deny that being a five zero one c three as an equity investor is as close as it gets to a real impact investor. No? The the they don't even return capital to their own investors. However, yesterday, I had a a call with with the auditor, of TechnoServ to discuss the evaluation of their position in the company. For tax purposes even. But but those it's the same conversation I had with play ventures. So, yeah, impact, impact. We can take this conversation wherever you want. But that's my experience. Well, thank you. Super interesting. I'd have a a thousand questions on your business. Whatever, but over maybe some some drinks in DC. But I I appreciate the the sort of zeroing straight in on you know, I mean, we we've talked about this a lot, as the team, you know, like, what is the kind of modern thinking of of impact in terms of you know, in in all aspects. Right? Like and I think you you I think rightly kind of lump them together because we could you know, I think and the IDB, I think, still struggles with this. Frankly, in the calf, you know, I think, is probably five, ten years behind the IDB and terms of, like, how many people have spent how many hours thinking about this and the constructs of monitoring impact and additionality and whatnot. You can say, okay. I'm gonna invest in a in a in a fancy hotel chain in The Caribbean, Four Seasons, the impact, the additionality. It's a it's a venture play. They could get money elsewhere. But if they borrow money from us, we're gonna make them buy their vegetables from a local farmer, which they might not really wanna do because it's just easier to import it. But if we force them to do it, then that brings local farmer in, and then it allows them to their, you know, produce quality up to a higher standard. So we're having more of the money go off and then they'll do it. So that's, a plausible narrative. Right? But other people will say, no. BS. Like, you're helping four seasons. Well, yeah, we're helping four. So it's like, you know, I don't I'm not sure. And we're not we're not thankfully. We're not being paid to solve that question. But what Calf, I think, what they're clear on is that they don't want all the money to go to Mexico and Brazil. Right? That they said there's gotta be some play for the smaller economies. And so we know a lot of the dynamics. Right? Like, if it's, you know, if it's a if it's a product or service that's only gonna be sold in El Salvador, It's too small. You're never gonna get big companies no matter how big the idea is, no matter how great the idea is. They're gonna have to sell outside of El Salvador or whatever. And and there there needs to be an exit pathway. So between you know, low deal flow, you know, not enough pipeline, between know, lack of capital, sort of, like, the things that are said in the space, between difficulty and exits, you know, regulatory environment, we're we're we're trying to essentially okay. What does CAF do? Nothing. Right? Like, just let the capital flow where it's going to. Do you try to do, like, you know, environmental kind of things like accelerators, incubators, regulatory, you know, spaces, you know, technical support. You know, must know cross boundary. Right? Do you go and sit next to an entrepreneur and say, no. Do your pitch deck this way. Like, we'll help you pitch around and try to get them capital whatever. I know. So if you were capped right now and you said, okay. We're gonna do an impact fund, maybe we call it differently or whatever, but there's an in having some impact. Then there's a commercial VC vehicle, I don't know if your answer today would be any different than 10 or fifteen years ago, but what would you answer them today? What would you say, hey. This is what you should do to think about being in small economies. To me, the first decision that that that needs to be made is whether this is a what's a debt fund or an equity fund. Okay. So it's equity. Well, the yeah. There's two pieces, but most of the focus is on equity. Yeah. It's on an equity fund. Okay. Yeah. Okay. So to me, after after a decade, on this, I I I've I don't think I really don't think there is there is any other way than to to acknowledge that impact has a price. Like, if you want to do impact investing, your expectations on the multiples need to be adjusted. That's just not the idea that you will be that your exit will be to general catalyst and you want us to do something for the world. In in our case, we we had a lot of problems because our mission is lower the cost of access to healthy food for the poor, but in the play to hit profitability as fast as possible, we we we found a lot of pressure from from investors to raise prices. So so I I I saw it. And because it's ten years old, there are funds at the end of their cycle that need to return the capital already because that's the the the the the term of funds. To me, adding a a a a very honest conversation around the multiple expectations is key. Second, is this fund funded purely with capital from the bank? Or will there be external LPs? And if there are external LPs, do we need to return money to somebody, or can it be a longer term fund? If the answer is the latter, which I probably knowing the the IDV, it's with our own capital, and it's part of the capital, and we don't have to return the money to LPs. Then all the more reason. So if we tame expectations connected with multiples and the time limitations that are normally pressing funds with respect to exits are also tempered then it can become a really attractive instrument for entrepreneurs, for impact entrepreneurs, for real. This is really cool. Like, I and we advertise. Okay. This is a fund that's impact for real. Because we understand the multiple can be two x or three x twice the money we invested, and that's okay. And we can do it on year seven. I be calling you every month. To see when you sell. And we can establish clauses connect. For example, I I've learned to see model bilos and model term sheets, the best. Some a Swiss foundation that it really well, with respect to a governance, and we have a policy example, that the founders can keep certain key decisions so that you never deviate from the mission, then, yeah, a great idea to do it. Because the devil is in the details. The thing with with with impact investors who never run an ice cream shop is that you need to you need to be on the you need to understand it's it's not about whether you wanna be impacted or not. It's the very detail of how you make decisions and establish super majorities in a a a a a a governance agreement on a company that will determine whether or not you are real or not about the impact. Having with all of those things covered, think that that's that's something that IDV Lab does not do, Mark. At all. They only follow rounds that are led by by name DCs or the ones they invest capital to. One of them, for example, is Newtopia from Argentina, which they they they couldn't care less how the impact. So so we real so if if this is real, the entrepreneurs will know. You will have a lot of demand. Because nobody we don't know who's real yet. In LatAm. Ring a bell? Yeah. I think so. So maybe pace patient capital, with a with with with tempered expectations on on on multiples and exit timeline, Strong governance. Yeah. The governance piece. I mean, because, I mean, essentially, yeah, that you know, that I think am I right that there used to be, like, you know, commercial VC and then impact? And those are getting closer and closer every day. With respect to, like, the impact is maybe pulling more in the sense that you know, people don't wanna lose the area. And then you had grants. Right? So I'll either lose all my money or I want 30% returns. You know, where's the middle? And then, like, the impact stuff at blended finance, so some people are gonna lose all their money. And some people are gonna get 37% returns. Whereas the all of us will make two x or three x or whatever. So have you seen that evolution? Has that not matured yet, or is it about to mature? Is it close to maturing? Is it, you know, is that the structure that we need to promote that a maturation of the investment investor expectations matrix or something like that? Yeah. And you know what? I would I would I would bet money on this. I know it. But I would bet money that it has some correlation with the price of money. So impact invest investing funds We're more patient and humane and nice when interest rates were at zero, and they could raise all the money they wanted because didn't have anywhere else. To invest. But as interest rates started to go up, circa 2022, then all the niceties of the funds began to look a lot more similar to VCs. And you're right. I agree with you, Mark, in that impact move commercial. But to me, that was because it was the only way for impact funds to raise money from their LPs because they had better options. So they had to promise So to me, this is a a market, a financial market. Behaving very rationally, and money that maybe thirty years ago when impact investing was wasn't a thing, it was put into philanthropy. But when interest rates were zero and somebody was promising with the even the the the the the the modicum for a that you would get your money back. Opposed to just donating it, that's when they started to to so so I don't know this. I I I it'll be super interesting to study it. But I think there has to be something about the the the the price of money also affecting our behavior. That make sense? Mhmm. Yeah. Yep. Is there anyone doing this well? Like, any equity investors that are I mean, is TechnoServe an example? Like, know we know them quite well. We were there first. Investment Amazing. And so we we had to we had to work with them. Through all the process that took them to to invest. So I can't say they're doing it well because I basically did it for them. I think that the foundation for ethics in globalization in Switzerland is very, very good, very well advanced. I'm happy to make a connection with our chief investment officer who sits on our board. The founder of the the founder of the Elea Foundation is Peter Woofley, who was the CEO at UBS. And when the time when they acquired Credit Suisse, he left and set up a foundation impact investing the right way. So he's a guy you would enjoy a lot speaking to. I think the Norscan foundation in in is doing a really good job too. I spent a summer there with them in working with them. They are doing a great job as well. But it's mostly Nordic and and and sophisticated European. I why I I think if we in Latin America, this job well done I don't I don't really I mean, I think there's a Michael Chew's fun, Ignia. I don't I don't I don't know. I think they're real. There is promotora social México. PSM in Mexico. This they they're good. They they they yeah. They're good. They they are they are okay. Yeah. They're good. And it's their own money too. And it's yeah. I think that's a that's a good fund. They didn't invest in us, but I have nothing but good things to say out of them even though they they passed on the deal. I'm happy to also make that connection. The guy's name is Ignacio Avaros, and he's doing that. He founded a bank in in Mexico called which is a very well known case study. So... But but but but his interest rates are high in that bank, so he decided to do a more philanthropic thing. Yeah. That's that's a cool example. It's not big or or it's or anything of the like, but, yeah, the rest, I can't Yeah. No. Not really. Okay. All that's super helpful. I mean, the Nordic examples, the Swiss foundation that does the innovative term sheets, Yeah. I I think I mean, just you you know the IDB, and and I I maybe another day I'd like to think through what they're missing. What we have with CAF, which is powerful, is don't know you know Sergio Diaz Granada or Yeah. Yeah. Granada's. But you know, they're hungry. They're smaller. They're faster. But they're ready to break whatever. They're a lot more flexible. They don't have to talk about The U like, The US is not there. They don't have to sit there for ten hours and the board of directors talking about impact. They can just go. And we're in that small, you know, club to sort of advise them how to go, and they and they don't know what to do, like, just candidly. Like that's why they're they've got a good team. It's not just us. There's a, a good group that they've brought on to to help think through this. And I think they've got, as you can imagine, like, old school bankers that have been there for twenty years and are thinking about things the same way and some new blood that's like, no. No. No. No. No. Like, this we're not gonna do this, the old school sort of boring way. Like, let's think about this. So we see this as really exciting. Like, and what I don't want, what we're trying to do is don't I I don't want them to do anything alone. Right? Like, build on the Nordics. Build on the successful case of the region. And they don't have time to do all the outreach that we're gonna do over the next six months to kinda really, you know, bring this home to them. And we just wanna say, okay. We've talked to a 100 people. You know, these five people, you need to call a meeting and to sit down in a serious way and, like, bring these five elements to the conversation. Here's the rough structure. Here's what's not to do what, you know, maybe. And and and what to think about. Because I think we're in a new day. I mean, I worked at US USAID a long time, and I saw a lot of their work. You know, that was, like, you know, sort of throw money towards entrepreneurs and and hope. Right? And, like and and so that money is gone. Okay? So what what about that was really working? But, also, what did it cost? Because sometimes you can pay millions of dollars to say, oh, it's working. Yeah. Yeah. But the unit cost for that is absurd, and we're now in a more transactional market based dynamic. And if anywhere, The Americas should be at the front of the game to operate in a more commercial manner because we're not, you know, in, you know, kind of Haiti and and some other places aside, but we're not in an Africa like kind of dynamics. So anyways, I I don't I wanna ask if Natasha and Jeffrey have any questions. I don't wanna take a lot of your time because I'd love to come back to you in a in a few weeks if that's okay. And Yeah. Yeah. Get you when we have a little more meat. But we since we you you pinged me, I wanted to kind of ping you back quickly and start the conversation. Awesome. Yeah. Natasha?  
Me: No. Things I didn't have  
Them: This has been this has been fascinating hearing what your thoughts. So I I used to teach social entrepreneurship and and teach undergrads at Brown how to think about whether to be a for profit, an upper profit, right business plans, think about financing. And and, you know, I always you know, the reasons why you became a for profit are fascinating to me because, I mean, at the end of the day, I what I might might might my bottom line to the students was it it doesn't really matter. Like, they're you're gonna they're they're they're they're just different rules for what you're doing, but if you're trying to do social good, know, the you know, it's about revenue flows and trying to have to follow the the regulations and but that's in The US context. I mean, the the Latin American context is totally totally different. But we what you're saying is so earlier this afternoon, we just met with a a a a VC in Mexico who basically said that investments in his fund from Mexicans the Mexican elite treated it like philanthropy. So they didn't have any any expectations on getting returns from their investments in I felt that to be fast the the line between philanthropy public returns, you know, not for profit, for I mean, it's all just it think your point about the interest rates is is is right on target. I think we're in a different world right now. And, you know, the you know, what does what is the difference? I think, you know, if we're gonna design something or help design something from scratch, you know, the the discipline that of of price and the discipline of keeping costs down, the market force element of it is is super important, especially in in this higher interest rate environment. But at the end of the day, it is how you write the rules. Right? And and and allowing within the structure to of any agreement to to allow for that what is so defining what social impact is and and making it okay that you're gonna get less of a of return on your investment. Because you're built you're baking into the equation that there's some sort of externality in defining what that externality is, whether it's, you know, saving hungry babies or you know, saving trees or whatever it may be. Like, you need to incorporate that in some way. The other like like, market forces don't will not account for that. Right? I mean, strict straight capitalism is not gonna take care of those public good externalities. So that's No. Mean, it gets down to this basic sort of public what what what's the role of public policy and what's the role you know, it's basic economics here. So I this was this was great. Thank you for No. Of course. Happy to continue the discussion. Any anytime, guys. Luke, If anything I've been into enough, I'm a member of the shop foundation, the World Economic Forum, Social and Entrepreneur of the Year at the at the WEP in 2023. I've been in enough forums to know the discussion at the high level. Think you're gonna make the difference to the bank if if if if if you're able to bring various detailed strategies, like, the get into the weeds of exactly what is it about articles of incorporation of our truly impact driven company. That goes to the difference between preferred shares and ordinary shares. If you're giving preferred shares to your shareholders, which means that they collect x times before the founders, then that's not really why we're here, is it? And so it's in the details. And in the details of what are the quorums, For example, the the model, Ailo, and Impact 80% quorum to change the mission of the company, whereas the venture Association by law requires 51%. So on a series b, when the founders don't have the 51% that they need, the shareholders get together, and from now on, you are a a a a a you can be a Hooters franchise. For all that daycare. So yeah, I'll I'm gonna write in your phone, Mark, and I'll I'll I'll text you, and we can But, yeah, go go to the No. I'm happy to introduce you to all the entrepreneurs who are gonna say this. Make sure there are entrepreneurs in the table. You you need to you need to be screwed by at least you need to have bruises from 10 or 15 investors to be able to speak out. This is traumatic. For all of us who had I I hear the trauma in your voice. I I feel I had shared by the statements that were not fulfilled that were never fulfilled. I it's it's a horror story. So so impact impact is coming. I love the impact impact. Fabulous. Yeah. Thanks, man. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I'm writing Great to meet you. We'll definitely reach out. And, yeah, thanks so much, Adi. Okay. Take care, guys. Bye bye. Bye bye.