Meeting Title: Costa Rica VC Ecosystem Meetings for CAF Project
Date: Apr 6
Meeting participants: Mark Lopes, Rigoberto Romero, Geoffrey, Daniel Granada, Andrea Orellana


Transcript:
 
Them: As I as I said in my note,  
Me: Coke.  
Them: we are a partnership for The Americas. We are a US based not for profit focused on increasing deal flow Latin America. And we are currently working with the CAF on a project looking at, four Central American venture capital markets to get a to kinda map the ecosystems for for the CAF. And I National has had very nice things to say about you. And I know I I wrote you about Costa Rica, but we are also interested in I I know you're based in Guatemala. We're kinda interested in in your views and perspectives on I guess, the whole VC ecosystem for for the region. Mean, we're looking at Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, and Republic Dominicana. So I don't know. Maybe we could start just by getting your and then this is Mark and Natasha, my my two colleagues who are on the call. Good morning. I'm assuming it's morning for everyone. It is. Fairly. Yeah. Two Maybe we could start with just I mean, what what is what are the what are the big the big positives going on right now? Central America in terms of investment climate? And you are Jeff, you're focused on BC. Right? Yes. Okay. So maybe let let me let me start off by telling you what we do at Pomona, and Mark, I think you you've met with Rich on a Oh, Yeah. Yeah. Number of times. Yeah. Great to meet you. Yeah. Yeah. Thanks. Okay. You're in my best. Yeah. At Pomona, we we focus on scale ups more than startups. Companies that are already established and are looking to scale their operations either in multiple countries or or trying to grow their their operational footprint significantly. Within their own market. And we do that through debt investments. So that kind of by definition takes us out of the BC space you know, as as you know, as investing equity into startups. Yes. That said, of course, we, you know, we work side by side with many of the funds that are interested in investing in the region. And so we we have some overlap with with many of these funds. Now to your question of what's going well, I think what's going well is you know, little by little, they're they're there are more people involved in this space in the investment space in general in Central America. That have relevant experience and are willing to put their capital at risk. Here. It's not that that hasn't been the case in the past. But just the the volume of people Still a very small number of people doing this. But you you can see the starts of something interesting. And I think that follows, a little bit steps taken or actions taken by by by a few families. That and, again, we're we're it's it's a handful. Most. I'm I'm sure you're familiar with the Kidos family in Costa Rica and what they're doing around the El Trueno and En Caricaco. Not sure if you guys attended the Caricaco Summit a few weeks ago. Did not, unfortunately. Alright. So for reference, I I would say that the best investment event in the region. By far It used to be flea, some years ago, but flea was little by little overtaken by the by the impact side of things. Which is not a bad thing. It's just not investment related. And so when you go to flee Central America now, it's it's NDOs mostly. Which which is kinda off putting for investors. So what Karikako has managed to do with Karikako Summit is is attract I would say, even global key teams that are interested in in Latin America in general. And and they're able to bring them down to Central America. Is not an easy thing to do. So if if if you can attend next year, I I would highly recommend it. It's a well curated event. I I, I think we so we started this project, about six weeks ago, and and that I I was at the flea in Merida and and I I know people I'd mentioned the Caricaco Summit. Unfortunately, it was too short a turnaround. So Yeah. I can imagine. Would have been great timing for our project, obviously. Yeah. Well, even though it's it's, the well, the event of course, is is done. Maybe you can go on the website and and find a few names from the people who participated there. It's a good place to start if if you're well, if you're mapping out who's interested in the region. And the KadiTeko people, I can put you in touch with Andres Lang. Sure if you have a contact with him already. No. No. We don't. He's the head for the family office, El Trueno. Great. Thank you. And, and he's he's yeah. He's just very generous with his time, and and he'd be happy to talk to you. That'd be great. Thank you. So I'd say that's that's what's going right. That that would be my answer is there there's a few, you know, handful of people that are doing interesting things. Attracting larger investors. At least to take a look at deals if not investing already. Mhmm. And so so what's not going right? We still look at the region as individual countries. And they are. You know, from legal legal perspective, if you're trying to invest in the region as a home, you you're gonna face regulatory hurdles at at every turn. And so that makes it really really hard for especially people who don't know the region who who are based in Miami or Mexico City or Bogota. To come down and and or come up and invest in a in a regional play. So that's always been the case, and I don't see that resolving itself anytime soon. You know, if you if you wanna invest in a fintech in El Salvador, that's going into Guatemala, You're basically investing in two companies. And you should know that. And, sure, you can have a you know, like, a a holding company somewhere in The Caribbean or The US or Canada. But it's not gonna resolve the the flow of funds going into the region is still going to be very ad hoc. You're gonna have to resolve that on a on a deal by deal basis. Mhmm. Can you give some specific examples of the regulatory hurdles? We we've we've I've heard that, you know, people met you know, mention regulatory issues, but specifically have a fintech example, in El Salvador. And you organize yourself around a very specific fintech laws that have been created in El Salvador, and you want to attack the Guatemalan market, there still any fintech laws in Guatemala. So how do you do it? Well, you can try to reinvent the wheel and just from zero. Usually, what you find is you'll you'll have to partner up with a local institution of some kind or have some local partner that knows has done this before. Has set up a financial institution in Guatemala to help you navigate those waters. So it's just I mean, the basics, how capitalized you need to be before you enter the market and start offering certain services. How long, you know, have you been in operation? So acquiring a company may be easier. Right? Even though you you may find a a a 10 little company that family owned. And it's kind of a site project. Never really grew. It's been around for three years. That may be the bet your best way in. So there's just the you know, every country offers different, levels of of sophistication in terms of the regulatory environment. Most are not really sophisticated. But you you need to face those issues set on when you're trying to expand an operation from one country to many. And and that's without going into you know, trying to open up any kind of business in Nicaragua, for example, right now. Or or the political risks you may face in Honduras. So it's it's an interesting region to to work in, keep keeps you on your toes. Yeah. I mean, so as the calf can like like, as the calf considers starting a new fund, and we're and we're they've asked us to look at these countries to be clear because they recognize that that that there is a great flow of funds to like Mexico and Brazil and Colombia and Chile, etcetera. But that there's much less attention given to the smaller countries in Central America. You know, we're we're we're we're also advising the calf on on their strategy as they think about this. So a region wide a regional wide one size fits all would not work, and that that you're saying that it has to be as country country designed with country specific mechanisms in mind. I think you can do both. I mean, what what we do is we look at every investment as you know, as it's very tailor made. Our solutions are very tailor made. For every company we engage with. That said, we we we have invested in I don't know, by now, countries in the region. Including Mexico and Colombia. So so you can have a regional pieces It's just when the companies themselves are thinking about doing cross border operations or going into a a different market, that's where you need to make sure that everything is well thought out before you before you start. So it's more of a of an issue for for the companies than for the funds. You can always find a way to structure a deal either equity or or or debt. Into any of these countries. But then what do you do Like, we're facing an issue right now with the logis logistics company that operates in many more countries than than than any other company in our portfolio. This is they're, I think, in 29 countries. But they want to focus their our investment into Central America. So four countries in the region. How do we set that up in a way that's efficient? That that's it's a it's an interesting puzzle to try and solve. If you leave it at a holding company, then do you have access to an and this is very debt specific. Are you close enough to the collateral to be able to assign it? To yourself? Or or do you go country by country and then break up the larger loan into smaller tranches. It's it's just an it's it's an interesting puzzle. Mhmm. And so and when what sectors do you invest in? We invest in agribusiness. Basic services, and digital economy. So three broad three broad kind of we always see umbrella sectors that capture we're sector agnostic. But we always refer to those three to be able to provide some comfort to our our LPs. The issue with Central America too is if you pick two too narrow, sector focus, then how do you generate pipeline? So what how we solve that is trying to be as agnostic as possible in terms of sectors. Agribusiness, you know, the these the sectors we chose, agro basic services, digital economy, are sectors that we think offer a ton of growth, potential. And at the same time offer, significant impact potential. In terms of job creation, in terms of environmental benefits. These are you know, they're they're simple and easy to explain and, and generate a ton of pipeline too. Mhmm. And just curious, jumping in, Jeff, if you don't mind. When you mentioned about the flea being more impact oriented and and the other being more investment oriented sort of non impact necessarily. Like, where do you guys see yourselves? I mean, I know you're promoting impact and you just mentioned impact. Like, what what's your sort of philosophy on the impact discussion? You know? Well, we try we we try to stay in the middle. We try to do both. But here's here's that's not really true. Right? The businesses have to be profitable in order to work. And and we invest money in companies that are operational. I need to pay it back with the return for our investors. So the business needs to stand on its own two feet. Before we even consider a company to invest in. The impact may be great, but if it doesn't make business sense, we won't even look at it. So so that's So does that Mhmm. Does that mean okay. So that I mean and I don't but, you know, this is But the most practical grouping But Mhmm. If if we if we look at a company, we love the business model, and then we we struggle to find a way to connect it to, to an intentional impact that's scalable and it's measurable. Then we don't look at it either. Yeah. So, like, I mean or or if a negative impact, so, I don't know, like, oil and gas or gas or or gas gas. You're you're you're automatic. You're you're so you're you've got a blacklist. We have a solution list. Yeah. And those, you know once you have IFC, onboard or DFC, those those come with your site letter. Yep. So impact oh, sorry. Impact seconds. And I don't mean that Like, I'm not gonna quote you. But, I mean, that that that's consistent with what we've heard. Right? Like, you know, business first and impact helpful. And since you've got side letters with those multilaterals, you're already got an exclusion list. And you're basically would you describe you guys as, like, is that would you say the industry is is where you are, or are you I guess, like, more pragmatic, I think, you know, than than than others? Like, are people still at the fleet dreaming for impact first and money second? Or have people kinda come around over the last ten years? Do you have a sense of that? I think I think there's a little bit of both. I think for the crowded flea, there's there's still a lot of, dreaming going on. That they're gonna transform the industry with this, little community driven solution. Which I mean, I I I hope they do. I just haven't seen it. And so I I can't I can't go into that. Right? Like, I can't use my investors' money to back a little community place somewhere else in the in the jungle in Guatemala. I it's just not what we do. There's still a lot of that. And then people kinda self exclude themselves from from if if they feel like that's what they're gonna find. And they consider themselves investors. I know a a number of investors and fund managers that just don't go to flee because they have this perception of Even though they you know, in their portfolios, you'll find a lot of impactful investments. They just don't yeah. For some reason, they they they don't wanna be associated with it. Got it. Yeah. So there's there's there's there's a broad spectrum. But I think there's a lot more capital going into the business first opportunities than than the impact first. That's that's clear. Yep. Got it. Thanks. Something something we've heard from others is that that there's a feeling that that many companies aren't investor ready and and that they're Oh, yeah. And that's getting better and but can you talk a little bit about sort of clusters and communities of of practice and how start ups get, you know, get to the stage where you would invest in them and do you play a role in trying to help them? I mean, are there could the calf step in and and look at ecosystem building as an activity? Is this a broader sort of area where something can productive or constructive could be done? I think so. Yes. So I'll start with what we do. Since our fund is looking at companies that have certain degree of scale, I mean, our our our average investment ticket right now is around it's a little over $2,000,000. And it's that which, you know, implies the company is able to repay a $2,000,000 loan. That kinda excludes a long tail of companies that are just not capable of doing that yet. Right? So in recognizing that there was gonna be that long tail of companies, we we did is we created the Pomona Impact Foundation. And what the foundation does is it raises grant funding to run acceleration and incubation programs. And, specifically, they've been really good at doing investment rating For agro processing companies. And food systems in general. And then in Costa Rica, they've been running the green tech, so green technologies. Acceleration program. And those two programs have been really success in in, driving support. I think I forget the number they put, but they've managed to raise millions of dollars for the companies participating in the in the acceleration programs. And this is you know, the it's as simple sometimes as organizing your information in a way that a bank is going to be interested in looking at it. Which you know, may maybe sounds simple to to the group in this call, but sometimes business owners just don't they they they don't understand how the person at the other side of the table operates. And and how they wanna see the information presented to them. So so, yes, investment readiness is is a big component. For for us, the other I mean, the other side of that equation is you don't at our market level. Right? Companies that are looking for $2.03, $4,000,000, Usually, these companies only no banks. As the investors in their in their geography. And so they're not out there at events looking for funds. They just they just don't go because they don't know about them. Or they think that's for the younger kids that are raising you know, money for their technology startup, not for my family business, that has been in operation for the last thirty years. So finding the companies and being able to explain to them what we do is is a bigger challenge for us than the smaller companies that are not ready yet. Because the smaller companies that are not ready yet they're hardly gonna be ready by us explaining to them how to present their information. They just don't have the capacity to pay back a $2,000,000 loan, and that would suffocate them. And and that's not the business we're in. So it's it's more about finding the the larger companies that are out there that they're maybe they have a business to business focus it's not like you're gonna find your products at the supermarket and and trying to engage with them. Generating that pipeline is is that will actually unlock a lot more potential for investment than than working with the smaller companies in our case. That's very specific to that and what we do. Interesting. And and your ticket size roughly is how much? So we started off with tickets as small as 500 k. Because our first close was at 10,000,000, so we wanted to make sure we had, some dispersion in the portfolios. And then when we had our second close at 33,000,000, so 33,000,000 total is what we raised, We increased our our initial commitment to 1,000,000, I think our highest commitment in the company or in the company is around 6 millions. But the average is 2.1, 2,200,000.0. Per company. Okay. And it's all debt you said. Right? Well, 80% debt, 20% equity. Okay. But these are equity investments into larger companies mostly outside of of Central America. And and they're I mean, the reason for that is the equity story in Central America is really hard. Because of exits. There there there's few avenues to generate an exit scenario for for a fund investment into a small company in the region. So we we we kinda shy away from from making equity investments here. It's a little bit easier to tell that story in Mexico or Colombia. Yeah. Have you heard anyone talking about ideas to fix that? The exit challenge in terms of, like, London Stock Exchange or are you guys thinking through, like, secondary markets? Yeah. Unfortunate, Mark, but our solution to that issue is is doubling down on that. For fund three, we're gonna do 100% debt. No equity. And where do you for your own fundraising, where where do do you generally find success? Are you in The U in The US? Or in the region? Or DFIs. Development finance institutions. That's those are so here's here's the challenge we found, and and we spent okay. Maybe some context. I I'm Honduran. Grew up in the region. Have worked in the region for many years. Worked at the IDB, tried to focus end companies in Central America for for the eight years I was there. With with great success because, you know, those were 5 to 10 to $20,000,000 tickets per company. So fairly easy to get those through. When I came down to work with Rich, and and fundraising for fund two, the current fund we're deploying, My thought was this needs to be a Central America fund on both ends. Right? Like, the investments we make are gonna be in Central America, but we need to raise from Central American families. That led to a wild goose that took two years and ended up generating if we're being really honest with ourselves, maybe $400,000 Wow. Really? Out of 33 millions? Wow. And this you know, you can imagine that this included meetings in Panama, meetings in Guatemala, meetings in El Salvador. We organized dinners. We brought people from outside the region to tell these families why they should be doing this. Lots of trabajo de evangelización. Trying to teach people, you know, like, this is why this is worthwhile. And and, again, with very limited results. So I think the lesson there was these families, you know, the the larger family groups or or the the wealthier family groups they understand what being a limited partner is. They are limited partners in BlackRock. And in, you know, larger funds in US and Europe. And they're they're they'll send, I know, families sending hundreds of millions. To these funds. When you ask them to to do the same thing in in their region, their immediate thought is, well, number one, I have a family company that, you know, for every dollar I I I put in, I get 30% pack. Because it's a quasi monopoly, if not a monopoly. Like, we're the cement company. We're the beer company. We're the telecommunications company. Like, literally, they they get returns that are completely unrelated to risk. So when you offer them a maybe 12%, net return, which, you know, sounds great. Right, Mark? 12%. If I can get 12%, I mean, I'd be happy. With those fund returns. But they look at you like, well, you're gonna do this in my backyard, You're not gonna be working for me. And you're gonna generate 12% maybe Like like, it doesn't compute. Right? I'd rather send that money out, diversify my risk with that liquidity because it's you know, that's their money now, not the company's money. And and not have to deal with somebody else doing business in my region. That doesn't work for me. Because that's that's what happens with the with the smaller or less wealthy These are the ones that are sending tens of millions of dollars outside of the region, not hundreds of millions. They'll look at you like, well, if I invest a million dollars in your fund, now you work for me. Right? I tell you where to invest. Like, no. No. No. You're a limited partner. You're gonna get reports and reporter. Yeah. That's not gonna work. And, well, that's been my experience. I know others have been able to raise and and usually, what you find is whoever raised money from local investors has a very close connection to those local investors. Family ties, long standing friendships, membership in certain clubs. And so that access which, you know, to some degree, we've had and just work out for us, has worked for others, but I don't see a a significant volume of capital. Not not significant enough to allow you to raise a fund off of that fundraising strategy. And when you engage with DFIs, what you get is as a fund manager, is a better bang for your buck because you're gonna get a a quick no. If it doesn't fit, they'll tell you in the first maybe the second call. Like, this does not fit our investment thesis. Sorry. Usually, with DFIs, if you're engaging for two years, it's because they see something that they like. They just can't fit it anywhere. But they're clear about it from the beginning. With family offices, you may end up engaging for four years and then get nothing. So this is super helpful, Daniel. What what's your take on so so so what do we do? So if you're with a CAF today and you said, okay. Given the difficulty of exits, given that you know, it's more debt than you know, venture interest Well, yeah, what what do you do if you're captain you want? So, I mean, I think one of the thesis here is that that when when people make concerted scaled efforts to build up the like was done in Chile twenty years ago. Mhmm. And and there is a pathway to exit that it's not just making a few tech pros rich, but that those gains are are often reinvested in local ecosystems. In other Chilean companies, you have a few angel that start out, and maybe they become fund managers over time, employees of the good exits, right, new bank, and others that there's some there's some good data on that globally So okay. So if it's worth investing in the start up Chile or something like it, Is that, like and meaning the ecosystem has has additional benefits over decades when when it's built out. And say, CAF says, okay. I wanna build up the ecosystem. So what do they do? Do they fund more fleet participant like accelerators and incubators and sort of soft side coaching, cross boundary type help you with your deck and your pitch, and, like, who do you help? Like, what any seeing anything there that that is interesting to you as a scaled solution to change the sort of natural economics that are at play? Can you remind me, Mark? I know I know, Peru has I know there's the start up Chile when they invest in in, funds, do they have this multiple where if you manage to raise three, we'll invest 6? I know there's organizations like that in some of the countries in Latin America. I I have it at my fingertips, but, yes, that was sort of the thesis initially that they would bring additional capital to to to to the to the table. Because I know en Perú, if you raise on your own, the old the old and that's 20 through computer. Like, there's a two to one multiple And that that is incredibly valuable. You know, if if we had that when we started would have been a $30,000,000 fund right off of her first close. Which also makes the conversation easier without LPs. Right? Because most of the LPs in a first time fund manager looking at first close their risk is we do all this work and then these guys don't manage to raise the remaining capital they need to raise for me to come in. So now I put in six months of, three people's time, into a deal that's never gonna pan out. That's that's the math they always do in their heads is  
Me: Alright.  
Them: alright. I'm gonna put in 5,000,000. You need to put you need to get 20. Right? Get to 20. So you need an additional 15. Who's gonna put up those additional 15,000,000? If if all of a sudden it's I'm putting 5, You guys are scrounging up another 5. Then we get 10 from whichever organization, CAF maybe, or a consortium, Cabay, CAF, somebody else. Puts into these funds. That immediately reduces the risk for first time fund managers. And and that's where you start. Right? Because if you have a team now that's funded, has an investment thesis, now they can it it's like a hunting license. Right? Now you're armed and ready to go. And and, yes, this is a two sided market. We need the pipeline in order to justify building the funds and then you need the funds in order to justify setting up the companies. Because if not, who's gonna invest in them. But, work is needed on both ends. I mean, how how many you guys are doing the mapping exercise. How many BC funds are there in Central America right now? Is it more than five? That are actually funded? Serious ones. Right. Right. Right. Exactly. I mean, there's a lot of people trying to raise a fund. But how many actually have raised any money? I think it's which is out of money, Maybe Maybe if you count the Guatemalan these are smaller, but, the alterna IDC funds And that's is that it? Because then you get into Kasaiff, Echo Enterprise Fund, Pomona, but we're all debt.  
Me: Ajá.  
Them: So we're not doing VC. Did I miss anyone? I mean, Caricaco is not a fun Okay. Her family office. What about Padam, Daniel? Capital, which they might have Balam, Honduras. They they might have made something in Central America. I see. They race in The US, but Did they raise? I think I think they raised for a specific investment. Right, in their in their own family business. That's the one investment I I know they made. And then they've done some smaller investments I'm not sure using whose capital. Maybe it's their own family money. Into into tech company. I know they've invested in a couple of companies in our portfolio. The Barfum Brothers. But I I I know that they've raised that. Like, a like a limited partnership where they raised significant funds, no no estoy segura. Gotcha. Super helpful. More Jeffrey? Others, Matt. I, I'm afraid I'm late for another meeting, but I will leave your all you so much, Daniel. This has been super interesting. Yep. And the intro to would be fabulous. And if we have further questions, is it okay if we're in touch? Of course. K. Great to meet you. I'm I'm sorry if it sounds like, I usually sound like I'm a downer on the region, but I'm putting my money where my mouth is, and I'm trying to change things every day through my work. So don't don't take this all as negative. There's there's some bright spots in here, and we just need to continue nurturing them. No. Not at all. We're we're all on the same side here. So Excellent. Alright. Alright. Thanks. Nice to meet you. Gotta go Nice talking to you all. Bye bye. Take care.