Me: Caballero, how are you, sir?  
Them: Very good. And you, Jonathan? Hi, Mark. How are you doing? Hi. Good.  
Me: Doing very well, sir. Thank you so much for taking the time.  
Them: No. Thank you guys for considering me.  
Me: How  
Them: What are we talking about today?  
Me: so can give you a little bit of background. Mark and I have been conspiring to improve the economies of Latin America on and off  
Them: I love that.  
Me: for years. Mark did a stint at a public private reporting to Kamala Harris, that was able with a small kind of start up team of four or five people and a group of advisers to generate 5 to $6,000,000,000 in new business commitments to Central America. Now what I understand Mark's vision is to kind of take that scale at 10 x across the entire region And how do we just make big things happen? How do we catalyze big change, big business across? Latin America. And one of the kind of consulting gigs that we have right now is for CAF. The banco de desarrollo, and how to actually build out their venture ecosystem.  
Them: Yes. That's great.  
Me: Corfo has come up a bunch I love what you did at Scalex.  
Them: Thanks.  
Me: And I kinda wanted to get a little bit of that story, learn a little bit about Corfo, what radicalized you to go into government, and start a junior stock exchange, your thoughts on quarter and then just kind of lead questions. Mark, Rigo, do you wanna introduce yourselves quickly, and then Francisco will hand it to you?  
Them: Perfect. Yeah. Twenty years in Washington jobs, development policy, Latin America, congressional political Obama days, Trump days. I was the US director on the board of the American Development Bank, and I'm currently consulting there as well as a side hustle, but, you know, trying to launch this stuff where we, you know, fill in the gaps between all these things and make make make big stuff happen. Yeah. Nice to meet you, Francisco. Yeah. My name is Rigberto Romero. I work for PFA. I'm based in I've got experience working with MDBs with with trust funds, and with different financial and allocating these financial instruments in a capital markets. So nice to meet you.  
Me: Jeffrey, are you able to talk, are you driving? Can introduce Jeffrey. Is oh, are you able to talk or no?  
Them: I am I am driving, but it's okay. I so let me turn off my maybe I'll turn off my camera, though.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Jeffrey Kirkman and I I spent many years leading Latin America fundraising for Harvard and Brown. Universities, including a lot of time in Chile working with some of the families in Chile related to Harvard in particular. And I'm a cofounder now of partnership for the Americas. Perfect. No. That's great.  
Me: Does does that add context, Francisco?  
Them: So you know, it does. It does. It does. So it's it's this is gonna be a nice conversation. So, well, I'm Francisco Meneses. I was the Well, I'm an economist. I have an MPAD from Harvard, a PhD in public policy from Duke. I have work as in the Central Bank of Chile, the World Bank as a consultant I was the chief investment officer at Corfo, the Chilean Develop Agency. And the head of the director of corporate finance at at Banco Estado. So and I have worked in the development of venture capital in Chile. Corfo is the biggest investor in the venture capital scenario in Chile with that around $1,000,000,000 invested. And this is kind of interesting because the American Development Bank has invested $2,000,000,000 in all of LatAm. And we're half of it in we we barely make noise. Corfu is a very big institution. It has, like, six it's a $6,000,000,000 development agency that owns a third of the in the world. So we tend not to have money problems there. However, we after Pinot two, Corfo became a public service with all their hands very tied down. And so we can do very little. We always say I have a sextant here at home. You know what a sextant is? Where you navigate with the sextant, that's what you have in code for. And they send you to cross the Atlantic portion with the sextant. And you can do it, it's pretty hard. So you know, I'm actually writing a book. I'm I'm gonna show you a few Slack maybe to because this is gonna be easy why we have been doing what we are doing. And and so let me see if I can share my screen fast. And I mean, two or three slides and one picture gonna be very clear what the problem is. Let me see. So okay. I'm sorry. None words downloads. A little up up arrow, like, two over from the mute button. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yep. Sorry. I'm just talking to myself, share screen. Share screen. So window, we're gonna share this window the moment what? In share And so I'm just gonna do you see this? And so when we analyze the okay. Do you see that slide?  
Me: Yep.  
Them: That picture? Okay. So when we analyze the Chilean market, Chile has an overdeveloped No. Sorry. I only see I see the mirror. Don't see the slide. Do you guys see it?  
Me: It just says, stop presenting. Show my screen anyway.  
Them: What do you see? I see, you're presenting. Show my screen. Let me I'm gonna stop the presenting, and, let me see if I can put entire screen. Entire screen. Okay. Sure. What do you see? Yep. Got it. Okay.  
Me: For the  
Them: Let me I'm gonna start with something. So Chile has an over financial sector. Here, I'm showing the domestic credit. Chile has a very strong domestic credit system that it's over a 100% of the GDP over that bigger than Spain, Portugal, even Brazil. And at the same time, we had a very strong stock exchange. The market capitalization of companies is close to a 100% of the GDP. Twice as much of any competitor in most of LatAm And so we have our financial sector capital markets, and on the other side, credit markets that are huge compared to other our development stage. Okay? However, and so when you look at financial markets in Chile capital, and and and lending, and credit you you at the first glance, you say, hey. These guys have everything solved. That's not true. And so when when you analyze this deeper, we have and and and this is we have a market that has focus on direct investments of pension funds the stock exchange in open companies and and and credit for banks. And then so between c c, PC, series a, that's not good. Series b, we have nothing in the country. And everything that we have has been done through Corpo. And so the private sector is only on series c and series d. So our stairs, our financial stairs or financial infrastructure is super big for series c's and above, but below that, everything that we have is due to the Chilean government. Now to the Chilean government. So what happens is  
Me: No. You're fine.  
Them: have this I'm sorry. These slides are in Spanish. This when you have a start up, you have small subsidies, start up Chile. You can pay get a 100 k. If you wanna have 200 k, you go to Innoa Chile. And then through Venture Capital Chile, Corfo lends money to funds that invest in companies in the country. Okay? But once you want to raise more money above $2,000,000, It start getting really, really hard in the country. And that's why we created Scalix, that it's a junior at stock exchange to cover series a's and b's. And we were have been trying to make a fund of funds. To cover that area. What we and and I'm gonna go deeper on Scalix there. But we also change the regulation of pension funds. So what happens is we have pension funds investing in this asset manager or or and and they can invest in big companies. And then we have Corporal, the Chilean development agency. Investing in smaller series rounds. But we had this huge gap in the middle, and so what we did is we changed the investment rules for pension funds, I think two years ago. We have been trying to to to create a fund of funds and create change create a a newish development bank. To cover that area. Moreover, we have a bigger problem. So Scalix was gonna come in the middle there. To solve that issue. And and one of the things that this problem generates is I have the funds, the investment funds, and below that, the firms that we have in the country, just as an example. What happened is firms, as they start to grow, they jump into Delaware. Because they start to see that there are no funds in Chile. That can help them. That was a glance. So what happened is we created a junior stock exchange. To solve this huge gap that we had. Because we are, right now, don't have funds investing in series a's and b's. So when we compare the Chile with the rest of the world, this is a regular problem. I have comparative data, we can go over and over. We don't have funds in series a's in this. Period. That's the thing. And that has to do because the chi and financial sector was designed by the state. By the government during forty years. You said you don't have what? I'm sorry. I couldn't I couldn't listen. Funds that invest in series a's  
Me: Like, can  
Them: and b. Okay.  
Me: Like, ticket size two to $10,000,000.  
Them: So Thanks. Yeah. You're muted, Jonathan. No. No. Well, thanks.  
Me: Ticket size of two to $10,000,000.  
Them: So I would say between two and ten, you have the funds that invest from Corfo. And that's kind of it. You make but from 10 to 50 or five to 50, you have this huge gap. There's nothing. And the only reason why we have series c's and d's is because in 1994, and this is important, and the IFC from the World Bank created the fund pioneros. A small cap fund. This was public money. And the government changed the regulations in 1994 and '85 And then we had a huge growth of small cap funds that they would get money from the pension funds and invested in these smaller companies. Still companies that sell 50 or $100,000,000 a year. Bigger companies. But there were not they were not big enough so that the pension funds would invest directly. So you needed this second layer. And so that those companies right now represent 10% of the TLNGDT  
Me: 10%.  
Them: Just 10%. So just that small segment that nobody wanted to invest before Now it's 10% of the 200 people. And so I I would say something around 2020% are private ties companies during the eighties and nineties. So the Chilean financial sector you need to analyze it differently. But what is the takeaway here? We were able using multilateral money, to create a huge segment that was not being invested before. So we have been showing to replicate that. Doing a fund of funds with public money that they would invest in funds that would focus on series series a's and b's. And why did we create a scale? It's this junior stock exchange? And we created it because we saw the need of it, but also because we know that our power is through institutional investors not private invest private market investors. It's not private equity that moves the Chilean economy. It's the public. Markets that do. And that is because institutional investors, pension funds, and insurance companies mostly can invest through public markets. So we created this public market. And we have been trying to, of course, export it to Perú and Colombia. And this is interesting because Nuam it's the new holding that owns the Santiago Stock Exchange, Lima, and and Colombia. So the same owner owns the same stock exchange, and so they are trying to unify the three markets. And one good opportunity is to start with this the stock venture capital segment. The junior stock exchange. And what we would like to do is to create something similar to the first north that you had in the Nordic countries. And and so where you have companies that go open into this market, get the investments, and then they grow into the traditional public segment. That's what we have been trying to do. We have opened five companies to look stock exchange here through Scalings. It has been good. It's not great. But it's good. We have operated for three and a half years, more or less. So we were doing a fund of funds, but the secretary of economics stopped it. So whatever. That's my life. I should pick I I had the wrong battles and lost them. And so but Why? Was there, like, a a simple reason? Or It's an it was a believer. Was a political thing. He was trying to pass a a a law, and it it will steal his thunder or something.  
Me: Francisco,  
Them: So  
Me: how helpful like, zero to 10, how helpful is a program, like, Start up Chile the second stage How helpful and actually, Mark hit Jeffrey just had to leave. Can we record this? Francisco, do you mind if we record this?  
Them: Yeah. Oh, please. Please. Sure. I'll have to go  
Me: But but my question is  
Them: go go for it. Yep.  
Me: how helpful has start up Chile been and then the second stage ban in developing this ecosystem and what did it help? Was it the money? Was it the culture? Was it  
Them: It's a good question. So Corfo has $2,000,000,000 a year that we put into the market. Start up Chile's between 2 and 4 depending on the year.  
Me: Billion or...  
Them: It's you million dollars.  
Me: Million.  
Them: Super small. But even though it is super small, it's the crown jewelry. Because it changes the whole mentality. It changed. In the past, the whole mentality of the Chilean ecosystem. We have had several unicorns come out of that. It has been just in taxes. It has been just amazing. That's what I was gonna ask. I mean, like, you say but sorry. Just to interrupt. But there's a theme here. Heavy public sector involvement, in the startup ecosystem. Startup Chile and then pension funds at the later stages and So you're trying to find pathways. It's not a money problem. You've got some money out there, need to get it in the right place, but a long history of public sector involvement and I was asking for the countries that have almost no public sector involvement, is there a case to be made? Guys, I know this sounds weird. Dump your money in here. Because ten years from now, there's gonna be reflows and tax revenue that's gonna over, you know, justify. Is that is that the story? Yeah. So startup just in purchase taxes. Value added taxes, as paid itself. And and we can do the full analysis because we if we only analyze the foreign companies, that came,  
Me: Wow.  
Them: that pays for itself. So it's huge. In that sense, we make money out of it. And, of course, we make more than that. So we have that added value taxes. We have income taxes, and we have personal taxes. All of that, we they're not even counting those second tax. Those are the two taxes. This is a lot of money coming into the country and into our economy. But the most important thing is that the mentality of companies in Chile change in the general setting The bad part is we haven't been able to do it in all the segments. So right now, we launch a program called startup labs for more biotech companies. We wanted to launch a program called scale up. Country scale up to get for bigger sized companies. And this is the thing. Right now, we're bringing companies where they have three employees. Wanna bring companies that have a 100. And chances are that's gonna be even more cost efficient. And so if we had scale ins working on as at full capacity, we would bring companies from Argentina, from Peru, from Bolivia, Paraguay. And for sure, And so we can bring them to Chile. We provide them self We give them $50,000, and we present them to investors Once they get one, boom. And so we can bring the jobs. We can bring the taxes and it pays for itself. Second, that was start up to you. Venture Capital Chile is a program where we lend money to the funds. And there was a research from the Inter American Development Bank it would say on our on Corpus' end, we were we didn't win. We didn't lose money. It was okay. 5% return, whatever. However, that's looking at our funds. Let me tell you one story. Just one. We lend $15,000,000 to a fund called Sembrador, the cedar. They would buy farms plant them with fruit trees and other things, and then they will start it exporting new products, and then they would they would sell them. This it's a $20,000,000 fund. And it's closing right now. Chances are we're gonna make a little bit of money. Is gonna make a little bit of money out of it. However, it created something that we didn't have before. It created prices. Sale prices. Now we know, how much they could sell those farms to Canadian investors, Canadian pension funds. So now competitor is making a $350,000,000 fund They have already raised more than a 100,000,000. And that's because they have prices. So you don't invest if you have uncertainty. You need to transform uncertainty into risk. That you can control and mitigate. Now when you have the price, you know, I'm gonna sell this farm at this price and these are the the addition, the multiplications. They know how to pitch to foreign investors and and and local investors. And they are able to make the market grow. And so just the value added tax of the to Escafones He's gonna pay for everything.  
Me: Question, Francisco. Chile was kind of known as being, like, the most Austrian Economics Of All Of Latin America, you know, Chicago School, But it sounds like  
Them: We're not.  
Me: a lot of this kind of economic growth has been state led. How do you guys sleep at night being good Chicago, you know, school economic school student?  
Them: Yeah. And we'll so so this is the thing. It's well, my book is exactly note that. Because we say we have less affair economics. But wait. Wait. It's not how where did the money from did the money come from? From the pension funds, the pension funds were mandatory, and so people would face a terrible market. But then pension funds were forced to invest in Chile. They were forced. They couldn't invest anywhere else. So although citizens would face a very harsh market, Big companies had a kind of protected economy. In the sense that we would open the market for them to export, but at the same time, they would have investors that could only invest in them. And there is competition. It's like little league competition. There is competition. We don't allow the big guys to come. And so that happens with our banks. And with our the big companies, 450 big companies. That's the number. And that's 80% or 80 something percent of the GED. That's it. And so most of the Chilean economy was growing that way. And then Corfo we couldn't do like, 3030% of our stock exchange is companies that were founded by by the way. Yeah. So then Corfu was not allowed to make new firms or buy firms, but we continue having all the tools to help firms to grow. And that's what we continue doing during the years. And so think our next step is to move our capital markets and, of course, market towards this segment of firms that is the middle stand in Germany that middle sized firms that we have left behind and have super high credit interest rates And although because they are expensive or whatever, And they don't have it have no investments at all from the institutional sector. And so and how to solve that? Well, this market is the way we we think it's gonna solve it. And second, we need to make big funds of funds where we can channel the the big institutional investors and they can invest or that money is gonna be invested into these firms. That was the team of model. We forced the citizens to save money into the pension funds. We channel that money into the big companies of the country, the country privatized most of the all the utilities all the state companies, and those companies were later on by the pension funds. And that's why we have a big capital market. It's not magic. It's you can go analyze each company  
Me: Interesting.  
Them: one by one, and there's a  
Me: So if you had  
Them: that's the strategy.  
Me: a magic wand in calf, and your job was to replicate the Chilean miracle or do something interesting in small countries and not them?  
Them: What would I do?  
Me: What would you go? What would you do?  
Them: Okay. So the team miracle has two sides. One was very big companies. Okay. So pension funds money into very big companies. So I don't think CAF has the power right now. They they try to do it through CAFAM, but they don't have the power there. Second tier, smaller cap companies, companies that sell between 50 to a $100,000,000 a year. Those are companies that if you put a 100,000,000 more, they're gonna hire a thousand people. That's a lot. So that's one target. And so you could provide small cap funds for open, for publicly traded companies through there. And that's you replicate what the IFC did in Chile in '19 in the nineties. The second thing is you can go to smaller photos. And maybe you can get more bank for the dollar And what I would do is I would do a fund a LatAm fund of funds. And so or a Central America fund of funds. I think they are trying to do one in The Caribbean right now. The Inter American Development Bank. And so imagine you grab five countries. And say, you know what? And I would do also one in in in the Southern Corn. Let and I have talked with the calf about it, and and I have got some money, but we do it. But if you put $10,000,000, $15,000,000 into a fund and also promise to land 15 more. This is important. And you put Cafam can do it. And you say, we are gonna invest in the venture capital funds in this moment. In this segment. And we expect a profitability, not 10 x, but four x. Okay? And this is not highly technological super duper. No. No. No. No. I'm gonna invest in companies that are gonna grow steadily in ten years. They're gonna be three times bigger. And I'm gonna buy cheap, so I'm gonna have four x. I would target those companies. These are wood firms. These are small industries. Service companies that can export to the whole con to to different sectors to You are not globally competing. You are regionally competing. You that segment is the one that is not targeted. You have funds that wanna patch unicorns. Okay. You wanna cut the sell. Maybe gazelles.  
Me: Are are those funds structured like PE funds?  
Them: Or past campus. Mhmm.  
Me: How would you structure the return profile for funds like that?  
Them: So what I would do is  
Me: PE funds?  
Them: private equity funds. That's what you're thinking? So what I would do is I would do a publicly traded fund in markets similar to Scalex. You generate so imagine because this is the great value of calf. I was talking with them. Right now, I'm trying I went to talk with policymakers at Colombia and try to convince them to let's help us do scale it. Okay. But if you arrive with a $100,000,000, it happens. Period. And so you you go to Honduras or you go to Costa Rica and say, okay. We're gonna open a a fund or we're gonna do three funds. Central America, Caribbean, and Mexico, and, and South America. Okay? Three funds. And we're gonna put $15,000,000, and each time we are gonna lend more money. Lend to the funds. You have equity and debt. You go and knock into Inter American Development Bank, and you tell them, the the new guy Graham Graham McMillan. Yeah. Yeah. The new guy, Graham you have only $400,000,000. What are you gonna do about it? Let's do this together. Okay? Because you only have 400, and that's we get together, we after that, we go and we start talking with funds and pension funds in Canada, Japan, and local. Pension funds. We go and talk with pension funds in Colombia, Chile, Costa Rica, Mexico. The the Mexican fund of funds. You do three big funds in the home arena, What is you do? You start channel channel channeling money and you get more for the same dollar. So the scale economies of the funds of funds is you your own dollar gets multiplied nine times when things work well. Right now, they barely do a three x or, like, the impact is super small. So you can get a super big event. So with only $50,000,000, you can on equity, and then you land a little bit. If I were in cap, I would do that. So I I love this. I yeah. I'm so grateful. I'm I'm I'm I'm also glad we were recorded. I know we wanna be respectful every time. If I can please just say can we ask for fifteen more minutes, like, in a month and just kinda circle back with you? Because this is so helpful. And that vision of the three funds, I spent an hour and a half with Graham McMillan yesterday talking about, you know, his all sort of onboarding and all this strategic stuff. And I think consolidating, you know, there's a vision there. You know, you're saying, drive a process to create a ecosystem of funds of funds, and then go to IDB and bring them in, do it together, cause you know, they're competing of course, maybe there's a conversation there, but like now we're talking about like a systemic impact that's based it's gonna bring enough attention to go into the details that they need to actually figure out how to do this right is my sense. Because I think, you know, Graham's overwhelmed. He's trying to figure out who the hell is on his team. What do people know? What do all those people do? All that. And this will like concentrate on where the knives are gonna come from. Exactly. Right. Anyways, I love it. I'm so grateful, Francisco. Thank you. You're anytime We try to do this in in in the South America. Politics. Next time, chances are we're gonna do it. Yeah. Unless the cap does it first, but We'll see. Talking to you guys. Have a good one. Francisco. Gracias. So much.  
Me: Francisco, muchísimas gracias.  
Them: Bye. Thank you. Take care. Bye.