Meeting Title: Mark, Geoffrey, Nat, Jonathan, Rigo
Date: Mar 6
Meeting participants: Mark, Geoffrey Kirkman, Jonathan Nelson, Natasha Ibarra, Patrick Menendez


Transcript:
 
Them: And I think there are synergies across the whole PFA ecosystem. And it could bring in, like, a little bit of the various all their kind of dynamics within one. Mhmm. Here's here's Patrick. But we'll we'll catch up on that. Patrick, caballero. Hello. Can you hear us okay? Yes. Yes. Yes. Well, thank you so much for for answering my LinkedIn email request. I can give you a little bit more color about what we're doing and introduce the people and then have you talk a little bit about your background, your experiences at FEMSA as their investment director. So we're partnership for The Americas is version two point o of what was partnership for Central America. Partnership for Central America was a kind of a very start up y public private group that was stood up by Kamala Harris as team and reported to her. And their job was to grow the Central American so people don't walk north And in a handful of years, Mark and his team, four or five person team, Rigo, they were able to get 4 to $5,000,000,000 in new business commitments into Central America within a couple of years. We no longer have kind of the the political hale that we used to have. With the current change in government, but the the vision is how do we get shit done? How do we transform business do we build business across the entire continent and region? And one of the first projects that we're taking on is Kaf the development bank has asked us, hey, We need to know how we can actually improve our venture capital strategy. We haven't really had a strategy. We've just been kind of doing it willy nilly. Teach us about this. Help us figure out how we can build a better fund. And what can we do in the smaller countries in Central America. So we're talking to ecosystem players and you guys at were kind of I think we're one of the first along with you guys and Bingo Ventures were kind of some of the first CBCs that make I've ever heard of. And you guys have been very active, and I was when I started hearing that you guys were, like, investing in fintech and payments. And and different stuff like that. And so wanted to get your perspective And that's kind of the reason for the call, and I know that you're in a transition or whatever. But just getting your perspective on what corporate venture capital and why corporate venture capital in that time is helpful. But I will let our team do a quick round of introductions Mark, Jeffrey, Rigo, do you guys wanna start? Sure. Thank you, Patrick. And I married a American, and we have a house in San Miguel, and San Mexico is very close. And our hearts. And we and we can do Spanish if it if it's useful for for the meeting. But yeah. Essentially, we could present to for example, a strategy on promoting corporate venture across the region. Like, that says, in theory, something they could throw some money at if if it may sense. So I think you're having your experience on, you know, where does that fit into the broader ecosystem of of, you know, moving capital around in a in a useful way, both for domestic capital staying domestically because one of the things is like, you know, okay, how do we get, you know, gringos to throw money south? Fine. But how do you keep money that's in the South to stay in the South as opposed to them investing in gringo companies or European companies or anywhere else. So, you know, any kind of orientation on that. But I did twenty years across US government things. I was a US director to the Inter American Development Bank. I'm now consulting with them as well in addition to this cap work and the other pieces. But lots lots of time in that, Jeffrey. Yeah. Hi. So Jeffrey Kirkman I've I've been working in Mexico pretty much my whole career. Started at the World Bank and the resident mission in City back in the early nineties. And I led, fundraising in Mexico for Harvard University for a number of years. And got to know a lot of families, both in Mexico City, Monterrey, and elsewhere. But the network strong network that Harvard has. Throughout Mexico, as well as the rest of Latin America. And so now I'm a cofounder with, with Mark on PFA.  
Me: Hey. Hi, Patrick. I can do Spanish. Right?  
Them: Mhmm. Hey.  
Me: Mucho gusto, Patrick. Roberto Romero, Yo vengo de un background de haber trabajado en lo que conoceríamos como hacienda y crédito público, por el lado del endeudamiento público, en el tema de colocación de instrumentos financieros, bonos soberanos, para luego pasar a un multilateral de desarrollo que es el concepto americano de interés económica, en el cual trabajé para la estructuración de un fondo de un billón de dólares, para conseguir inversionistas institucionales, de la República de Corea del Sur, como nuevo miembro del último nuevo miembro del Banco Centro de Mercado de Internacional Económica para poder invertir en proyectos e e invertir en empresas en la región centroamericana, y luego administré un fondo Fidu de cincuenta millones de dólares para desarrollo de proyectos también en la región latinoamericana. Así que, y ahora con PFE como gerente regional de programas. Mucho gusto.  
Them: Sure. I mean, I'll I'll I'll introduce myself as well. Been doing the DC in LATAM game for close ten years now. So I initially joined what at the time was Varys Capital in '28 early twenty eighteen. That eventually evolved into cometa, but also very talking back. There were a bunch of issues. I led those guys about three years ago because the the you know, at that time, the people that were leading friends of you know, I was really good friends with them, and they, you know, they told me we're someone with your profile. We'd love you to have happy here. So I I jumped shipped and and joined Venice Adventures and have been you know, involved with both the fund to fund strategy and the start up investing at Ventures. Unfortunately, the the company has going through been going through some issues recently or for the past years. A lot of things have been happening. And long story short, they're cutting a bunch of stuffs pretty much that decided you know, they they they are restructuring the company, and that involved, you know, a lot of cost cutting, and that included fems and ventures. So fems and ventures is shutting down by the end of this month. Mhmm. What? So it's, you know, it's not great news. Especially for the ecosystem. I think I think we have really were doing something very interesting, and it kind of sucks that we're getting shut down. Not because we aren't doing things right, but because, you know, the the owners of the of the capital have other priorities, and I think that's fair, but it's unfortunate. Yeah, with that with that background, What what what what did them suffer Ventures do? And what did you do on your direct investing? What did you do on your fund to funds investing? And, like, how is that different than typical venture? I think I think what Sensor Ventures got right is we we tried to act more like a single LP fund rather than a corporate VC. If that makes any sense. Double point on that for me, would you? And and what that means is we we were a finance first fund. I'm I'm really good friend with Beeple Ventures, for example. Pablo Julitza is is is a really good friend. We we worked together at at Bain and Company a few years ago. Out of out of the Mexico City office. Those guys see Bimbo Ventures as a initial step for m and a. So they don't they don't care about, you know, the financial returns they get. If one of the portfolio companies is acquired by Bimbo, that's good enough. That's exactly why we're doing it. Don't think that's what a VC fund should be doing, whether it's corporate or whatever. So the the the issue with corporate VC is there's so many ways to do it and so many rationales behind it that we call everything corporate receipt, but there's a lot of different flavors. I believe the flavor of that femicide chose is the right one. But some other people could disagree. I think the the initial fund one which I wasn't involved, you know, began as began with the fund of fund strategy and the direct investing I think the fund the fund strategy makes sense initially because you know, everyone wants to do VC, but once you actually have the money and you've got to invest, it's not that simple. And and the advantage and disadvantage of corporate PCs that you're suddenly sitting with $20.50, $100,000,000, and it's tough to find people that actually know how to deploy that. So it it makes sense to start with a fund to fund strategy because you know, what these guys did was, like, let's sit in the investment committee of of a lot of funds. Let's let's ask for, you know, don't wanna get into the decision making. We just wanna learn how they're doing. And I think that was very smart. One could question whether the fund of funds should have continued after that. It gave me an advantage because I had all the information of all the funds. You know? So if we're looking at a, you know, fintech company payments, I can look at all the portfolios. And everyone can do fundraise with me, so I even have that information. So it's it's it's a bit of an unfair advantage. But if if I would have had to, you know you know, fund if we were to raise a a fund three and have to keep doing fund the funds, like, I don't know how I can spin it because it doesn't make sense. So, you know, and and you know, I I think another thing we we got right is we also realized there was a lot of value in in in the strategic of of having FEMSA as an investor. And we and we invested in in having a couple of people involved in what we call platform, a lot of funds call platform different things. A team of two which they're  
Me: Which  
Them: full time job was to understand the needs of the different Amazon has three business units. So it's sub business unit, sub business unit, sub business unit, cross that with all geographies. It's hundreds or thousands of touch points. So they work consistently talking to each of these those touch points and understanding their needs. So if I was if if, you know, if my investment team came up and said, like, we are looking at a, you know, supply chain start up with this characteristic Who can we talk to? But has this need or understands this? Everyone wants to talk to in Mexico. It's massive. But maybe the answer is let's talk to the drugstores in Chile, you know, or or let's talk to the convenience stores in Switzerland or, you know, let's talk to the gas stations in Mexico. So so having that and having them once we invest, having this team helping them navigate the organization was really powerful. Because we we were able to you know, if they had to sign an NDA, it would usually take six months, we could make it happen in in three weeks. So we just could just kick start a lot of stuff internally. Which was which was pretty powerful. But I I mean, I think there's there's a few things we we got right on on on that regard. I think, you know, it's it's it's really tough for for these large organizations to really buy into these programs. We were doing a little by little. We would do internal programs. We would, you know, we would, you know, server the organization under understand what needs could be solved through working with a start up. And we and we did have some interesting wins there. It just takes a lot of time for people to really warm up to these programs. And and, you know, one of the problems with corporate VC is you know, if if if you're an operator in FEMSA, you know, it's like, why does the booted guy you know, have access to a $100,000,000 to invest when we are struggling with this and that, you know. And it's a fair fair fair conversation to have. So so you really need a lot of alignment on a on a a lot of stomach and a lot of, you know, long term vision to make it happen. And you know, what what I realized now is you also need to be lucky that the organization at business is doing really well because once things start turning south for the business, it's it's tougher to maintain these sort of programs. I I went a lot of different routes, but I don't know if that's you know, helpful or if there's any other questions. Right. Why is it so culturally, why do you think the execs at PHEMSA wanted to do venture capital at all? Like, what was the drive behind fund one? Think there's a lot of the I think there's a lot of drives. One of them is they realized well, not only they realized, business units within FEMSA starting investing in startups. And it was a massive mess. The biggest one of them was Konecta. You could probably Google that and and and and learn a little bit about that. And it ended out early. So so so they sort of realized, like, our business units shouldn't be investing in startups. But startups are becoming more relevant and are, you know, looking for ways to collaborate with us. So let's let's centralize those efforts. If a business unit wants to invest in a start up, should have a team that knows how to do that. That was one one that was that was one probably the biggest burning platform they realized. And so that kick started this whole whole process. I think they, you know, they also saw it as a as an opportunity to look into innovation, to look at, you know, business models that were adjacent to what the company was doing. So so so there there there was a lot of rationale. And and at the end of the day, you know, I I truly believe the leadership and the family behind it makes the kind sense They're entrepreneurs. They believe in this. They understand this. And they, you know, they felt it was a good idea. Unfortunately, things change and priorities change, and and and we are where we are. But I but I think that's you know, they they they saw value in in in what was happening and and, you know, and then being early on on that trend. What do you think the impact of sense of insure fem sub insurers has been? Like, what have been the benefits to the company And, like, do you guys have, like, d p have you guys had DPI? Has it been you know, what's your NAV? Has it like, financially, what's been the impact And then how has it improved the company as a whole? I think we've we've had very little DPI. Our fun one is twenty eight twenty twenty nineteen vintage, so it's still a bit early. We're out there. We've had some DPI, but it's been, you know, don't think we've got it to top one. Maybe. I think we we've been we've been or or for the last couple of years, we've we've tried to you know, give out a dollar value to the impact some of our our investments has created with the company. And it's very easy to to say, you know, we have a pricing and promotions investment that works with OXXO. You know? Those guys increase the sales of beer in OXXO by 1%. That's millions and millions of dollars. You know? We we can easily argue, you know, we paid for the full program, only that you know, investment. The counterargument there is, like, yeah, but those guys would have been happy to work with us either way, whether you guys invested or not. So you know, it's it's debatable. But, yeah, we we we definitely have, you know, clear examples where the company has benefited from investments we've made or for working with companies in that we invested in, and it's, you know, it's massive. It's it's we we could argue paid several times for the capital that has been invested. But, again, the way we think is not the way these operators think. So it's it's it's it's it can you know, you can get into a lot of discussions pretty quick. Different points of view. We know where it know you know, I think our performance is above average in You want you wanna be top quartile, top decile when when you're doing the PC game. Think it it it's too early to know if we were gonna land there, but I have all the numbers. I know where I stand, and I and I know where I stand, and I know we were doing a better job than many of the big names in LatAm. So yeah. I mean, as I think I think it it it was working. I think, you know, had we had a couple of more years, we could probably, you know, be talking about some real DPI and and maybe have another conversation. We just knew, know, we we ran out of time unexpectedly. Yeah. No. Thank you. It's it. If you had a varita mágica, and you were to say, we need to help the big conglomerates across LATAM start thinking about corporate venture capital how would we a, teach that how would you have those CVCs structure? And if you don't know, the that's fine. I mean no. I I mean, it's it's it's it's a great question. I I I I haven't never thought about it. Or if you were gonna set up another CBC program in another company, what would you do? I Why? Because I'm I I don't I don't think I would really need to become based on the alignment and the long term vision of the company. And couldn't figure it out I have a tough time leaving someone else ago. If if that's and it might be unfair, and and I have noticed recently biased, but it it the the the way to do it is is not having internally in the company, if that makes any sense. And if you you look if you look at some of the examples that have been successful, they eventually become spin offs. Like Sam's urban. The ones that survived. The the ones that are able to spin up from the from the from the corporate structure. Because it's it's it's tough. It's it's it's you know, unless unless you, you know, you know, hit it big very quickly, which doesn't happen in LATAM. It's really tough you know, to to maintain this these programs. So I I think the the way these guys should do it in a sense is, you know, be a major LP and, you know, somehow make sure the collaboration can can can really work. There's some people trying to do it out there. But I think that's that's probably the best way to do it. But you you you need to you need to enable these guys to be able to make the the the decisions. You you which was one of the one of the biggest, you know, brick we had. You know? Like, I I cannot deploy $5,000,000 in startups in Latin America if you wanna only give me very a very specific set of of of industries or or characteristics in which I can invest. There there there's not enough opportunities out there. I would probably and I would do small funds. Actually, when I when I joined FEMS of Interest, I said, why why do we have $75,000,000 fund for investing in stocks? Why don't we have a $30,000,000 funds and we do new funds every two or three years? And the answer was, like, yeah, that sounds great, but we're not going to the board every couple of years for this stuff. We just have the time, which is which is yeah. Fair fair enough. You know? So yeah, it's tough for it to live inside the organization. Especially if it if it becomes like a really big vehicle. But if it's if it's not a really big big vehicle, then you can't really do much. So it's, you know, it's a cost balancing act. So, I mean, I I've I've had hundreds of conversations with other CBCs in Silicon Valley, and and what I hear frequently is that there's always kind of this internal mismatch between, like, the four year cycle or the one year business cycle and then a venture cycle, which is might definition ten and now probably fourteen years long. Yep. And halfway through your ten year cycle, you get a new CFO, you get a new director, and they're like, the fuck. Like, why are we doing this? What are we doing this? As well as I keep on hearing is that there's always if you report to business units, then who makes the decision? Is it the business unit? Is the venture fund? And let that internal political dynamic is always seems like a mess and very frustrating to the CBC managers. Would something like that be reflected in your experience? Yes. And if you don't wanna say, say no. I mean, that's fine. No. Yes. Yes. And and I think the previous sense of CFO was very was a huge champion of what we did, and the current one isn't. And that's part of why we got caught in this this It is it is what it is. So  
Me: ¿Tú ves, sir? ¿Quién  
Them: and and and and there's definitely some friction because at the end of the day, like, the guys are operating these businesses, like, they don't their incentives are not aligned with working with a start. So so you really need to find, like, use cases where you can come in, introduce them to a start up, and that start is able to solve an issue that really matters to them. And there's also I think another issue there is is and this is more on the entrepreneur side. Like, a lot of entrepreneurs, and I don't know if that totally latin, like, they would come up to me and say, like, oh, like, I'm perfect, fit, for, for, so I'm interested. I'm like, this is not VC business you're building. So what? You're not a real VC. You're a corporate VC. So you should just give me money. And if you know, I lose it, who cares? Because I, you know, innovated within your system. Was like, what what are you talking about? Like, that's not how this works, and that's the perfect recipe for non no CDCs to ever exist. But a lot a lot of a lot of entrepreneurs think like that. It's like, oh, perfect. I'll go with Samsung. They can give me a million dollars 2, and, you know, we if works, it works. If it doesn't, like, they don't care. Like, no. That that's absolutely how how you ruin this whole game. But there are there are out there some CBCs or whatever you wanna call them that are know, giving money to these startups because if they're, you Mhmm. Makes sense or whatever, and those probably go nowhere and then, you know, VC is to playing where you're you're you don't have a real strategy or a stable strategy in in what you're doing. And Mark and Jeffrey, know we're coming up against the end of our time. If you guys have any questions, dive in. And if not, I have one or two more. But I mean, it just first of all, it's so super grateful. Thank you. I mean, I guess one that you can add on on Jonathan, like, have you seen anything that the cap or the IDB have done useful to the ecosystem in Mexico that you would say do more of that or or do less of that? Like, go away, leave us alone, let the private capital flow. So I'm just curious if you've had any experience with the multilaterals and what they might do or not do in the context of Mexico. It's very obviously, than Central America. But I've I've I've worked  
Me: And, the IPV was an investor in  
Them: on on the IDB was an investor in in commit discrete when we fundraise that.  
Me: comment the screen when we found it set. I don't know. And I know  
Them: And I know a lot of the people there. I think I think we at some point, we really learned from from we we had a few sessions where they, you know, they explained some some some operative, you know, concerns they had that we didn't even realize we were gonna have, and that was super useful and and, you know, really insightful. I think the biggest issue was it's just a drag and it just like it takes months or years to get to a commitment, and you're just you know, suffering through a whole process which is, you know, like and I and I get it. But it's you know because it's you know more credit, but it it was there was a moment where where where and I think this happens to where it's like, is it really worth it? Like, is the $2,000,000 we're gonna get from these guys really worth, you know, what I'm going through and everything they're asking for, and they want to the LPA again. And, like, come on, guys. Like, so so I think there's that And and and and they need to and and and then you have the issue where they, you know, they they they have the funds they like and they just keep giving them money. You know? And and I don't feel they're really going out there and and looking at new managers. They do a little bit, but it's also, you know, it's it's, you know, they they're they're they're well connected with the usual suspects and then, you know, they keep giving them money and and sometimes those guys aren't necessarily doing things the the best way. Some are it but I sometimes feel like you know I'm not gonna give names, but I I a former IDB executive It's very highly of a manager who's not good at all. Like, an I have the numbers to prove it. But it's just like why do you keep championing this guy? Like, he's a nice guy but like seriously, like, this guy shouldn't be being championed because then people think that's the right way to do things. So so, you know, I I guess, you know, that that that's not intrinsic of of the IDB. It's just human relationships or whatever. But I mean, it'd be it'd be interesting if if they could streamline things a little bit more and and really, you know, if you wanna kick start funds, that's great. But, you know, after fund three or four, like, these guys have to figure it out. And new funds need to come in because that's the issue. Right? No new funds come in. Except for Brazil, but but, I mean, if you wanna look how things are done right, look at Brazil and Lata. Because it's Brazil and everyone else. Mexico is a mess right now. There's no there's no capital in any of the VC funds in Mexico. All all the big guys they've been phone ranging for two years. They haven't been able to do a first close. No? So what what's going on there? A lot of these guys have raised tens of millions of dollars from from the IDB and and and the IFC and a lot of these guys. So it's, like, where where where is where is all of that going? So yeah. I mean and and part part of the issue is, you know, what what I'm putting in that article that sort of up where where, like, the incentive has screwed up. Like, there's no way you can deploy a $100,000,000 fund in Spanish speaking Latin responsibly. There's no ethic way. I'm I'm not gonna write that because then people would really get mad, although a few people got mad, and I got a few aggressive emails. But there is no way. You can do it in Brazil. Not in not in Spanish speaking that. Is there not enough deal flow? No deal flow. Yeah. And and you there's no way you're you're the guys that that are raising a $150,000,000, there's no way they're returning half half 1,000,000,000. No way. Like, not gonna happen. Hopefully, I'm wrong, but it's may maybe one does. One of them does. But the other five guys are doing that, No way. No way. There's there's not 2,500,000,000.0. In a vintage or or in a couple of years of vintages. To be returned in in this market. Absolutely no way. You have one rule bank every ten years. You have Mercado Libre, maybe despegar, don't know if you consider that, a new bank. That's it. Every ten or fifteen years, have one of those. Where the hell are you getting, you know, half 1,000,000,000 or or or something something like that? There's ways to return a 100,000,000 but not 500 or or or 3,000,000,000. There's no way. At least not now. So so so that's why you you you need to be responsible about it. We we in in sense of interest, we haven't we haven't taken a mix ever since I'm I've been here, for last past three years. We haven't taken a a a Mexican fund to investment committee. Investment committee,  
Me: To an investment what? Sorry, Patrick.  
Them: We we we would because we're we're like, guys, this doesn't make sense.  
Me: Oh, commit.  
Them: Why are you raising a 150,000,000? Why don't you raise 80? Like, you raise 80. We we we'll take you to we we've literally told all the big guys in Mexico, like, you raise 80. I'll take you to investment committee tomorrow. But it's a freaking hard cup of 80. And they tell you, like, yeah. Let's say 80, but let's put a hard cup of $1.50. And if we end up in $1.20, I'll promise you it will work out. No. It won't. I know your numbers. From the previous fund, and it's it and it's not working. Is the reason that it's not because there's no deal flow at the beginning, or there's not enough exits at the end? Or both? Both. Is no deal flow in Mexico. That's a that's a a that's a really weird dynamic. I I was just I had coffee with a manager out of Colombia yesterday. He was like, what the hell is going on in Mexico? There's no deals, look. Of Mexican startups. You have a lot of, like, the guys from Chile, the guys from Colombia, the guys from, you know, Uruguay coming here. But, like, Mexican companies Mexican founders, there's no deal flow. It's crazy. What about secondary markets? Is that Is that matter there? Like if there was a way to extract some of the capital? Think think there's definitely space for a secondary market. The problem is if you have a $120,150,000,000 dollar fund, you cannot sell on a secondary the series b or c because there is no way you're gonna be able to do the return. So these guys are sitting on on on on on on the assets and praying for for a bigger exit. And and you know, the the there's funds that have been in, like, Glip and, like, Quesky and really good companies. Twelve, fourteen years. And I think those guys will eventually get liquidity but the IRR is gonna be single digit. They just have to wait so long. Interesting. One of the things and we can have this conversation separately. Patrick, but HF Capital and trying to stand up a boutique investment bank, and I'm working with London to actually raise a London syndicate of, like, 30 to $80,000,000 put money into companies like Whiskey, on the condition that the company agrees to go public in London, within a year and a half. Specifically to start because if you just focus on the gringo capital markets, you gotta wait till you're 5 or $10,000,000,000. Yeah. And that's gonna take another seven years and let them Yeah. And so how can we help these companies list, like, a $701,500,000,000 kind of market cap But I'd I'd love to get your perspective on that separately. Through a different conversation. But because I know that we're already over time. But what's helpful to you, man? You're leaving FEMSA. Magic wand. Three to six months. That's amazingly I I I mean, this was a really surprising news, which we received a couple of weeks ago. And sticking it easy. Just wanna figure out what's next and sort of putting everything on the table and and and I'll take it from there. So you see anything that's interesting for my profile, I'll be happy to, you know, explore it and have coffee or one of these conversations. I'm as far as talking to everyone right now, So your your message was a really good time. To to be perfectly honest. And yeah. I mean, I really love what I do, I really believe in this industry. But it's also pretty frustrating. So now then, you know, had we had this conversation two year two months ago? But yeah, you look you look at someone's stuff that's happening and it's like, come on, guys. Like, we we you like, it doesn't if if if I were one of these firms, here's here's the big issue. Between and I I I cannot write this in a in a postheader. It's usually the issue between Brazilian funds and Mexican funds. Brazilian are building firms. Mexicans are building boutique shops where they wanna extract value any way possible. And that's that. They're not interested in building a long term team. They're not interested in really building a platform. They're just, you know, So if you raise if you're able if things align like they did in 2021 or 2022, and you're able to raise a $120,000,000, like, you're you pocket a couple million each year and pray that you have some decent returns and do it again. And if you don't like it, it's it's And so how would you build a firm as opposed to build a boutique shop? Like, what do you think they're doing differently? I I don't think they're developing their talent. I don't think they're they're investing in it. I don't think they're building any infrastructure. You know, you you look at these teams and it's know, they're they're they're they're running these funds with four or five people. And and they have huge turnaround. And they don't really you know, they're not really building a a you know? If you you look at the Brazilian guys and they're, you know, bringing in the former, you know, central bank president Brazil and stuff like that, and they're bringing in like, these experts are investing, and they have, like, a they bring in a CTO to do all the technical due diligences and stuff like that. And these guys aren't they're they're they're Brazilian the Brazilian fund managers seem to have, like, a lot more experience in operating in startup land as opposed to being more, like, empresarios turned VCs. There's also that. There's also that. So so yeah. But, I mean, you you you and and you need to sort of go by steps. You know, like, if you look a lot a lot of the Mexican funds, you know, current fund is over 100,000,000. The previous one was, like, 20. It's like, no. Like, you know and if you look at the prosecuting guys, it's like, 0, like, they raised 20, then they raised 30, then they brought for 15. And they're and they're sort of trying to find their sweet spot. That's how you you know you you build a sustainable business and and you know and you really invest in in in in in the team and you develop them and you incentivize them and try to bring in, you know, new capabilities and build the platform. You you can you can accumulate the AUM but you you can get creative around it. You know? Like, should you have a, you know, I don't know, like a lot of people say, you know, what about you know, these VCs don't invest in climate tech or don't invest in active or don't don't invest in all that. That's not where the money is. But, like, is is there interest for that? Sure. Like, let's be let let's raise aside vehicle of 15,000,000, you know, with some of them that really cares about that. And understand what the expectations will be on on the on the returns in that vehicle. And let's find a manager that really understands that and and, you know, and let's use some of that fees to really build on the platform and the infrastructure and stuff I have on the firm. That's how you build a firm. You know? It's it's not just, you know, let's, you know, let's raise as much money as possible. Because then then the the full are flipped. You know? And that's, you know, that's part of the rationale why why I left I realized like I I I had a conversation with those guys, and I really liked you know, who's one of the partners, and he's a really good friend. But, you know, when we that that that vehicle was originally targeted 75,000,000. It ended up $1.28. And and when I told them when we were at 90 and I told them this is enough, they were like, We think they had afford COVID. And we ended up in $1.28. And now they have some very interesting companies in there, stop that. Like, there's there's no way you're 50,000,000 $5,500,000,000 to, like, like, there's no way. We'd have to they'd have to hit $2,500,000,000 worth of value in their portfolio companies. And and and and we hit symmetric very early. Was the first investment we did. That that that's a that's an investment we I I I let. I know. They they, you know, they hit that with the first check. That's the freaking dream scenario. And and had they and have we raised only 80,000,000 Then you're talking at a then then then Symmetric can do one from five x at 1.2, 1.5. But now they're gonna sit on that asset way too long. There is no other but because that's that. And they cannot do secondaries to your point, Mark. If they do secondaries, they're screwed. So so so that's, you know, incentives again. It's it's all around the incentives. This is Patrick, this has been fantastic, man. And you're under friend d a. And so no te preocupes. And I I I'd I'd love to pick your brain about this exit problem, because I think you've been thinking deeply about this a lot longer than most people have. So I'll follow-up separately, but Agradecido, caballero. Thank you for your work. Sí. You guys did change the industry. I've watched from afar. And I think you guys have actually had a very big impact and a good impact in trying to pull the Mexican ecosystem together. And something tells me with as passionate as you are about this, you will continue to do that work. Thank you. Thanks so much. Appreciate the time, and happy to help. I'm happy to Yeah. And likewise, if we can do anything, please ping us anytime. Sounds good. Thank you, Patrick. You guys. Guys.  
Me: Thank you. Bye.