Meeting Title: Partnership for Americas VC strategy study with CAF for Latin American investment ecosystem
Date: Mar 16


Transcript:
 
Them: Hey, guys. Sorry about that. I'm ringing for your report. It's actually really good. No. You know, I take some time to do a lot of prompts, but, like, I I love that it I mean, it goes out and gets all these real We gotta go test them, but then that's just again, I'm blown away by I what I like about it is it's like it's a it's a small it's a contained idea. Right? And I think we figure out how to get, like, like, four or five contained ideas out of a this. Like, some of this stuff is so big that you gotta talk for three hours, have a car Give small ideas. Let's suit out really targeted small ideas with clever marketing. Get those moving. You know? Like, and good you know? Whatever not. Like, I think from a research standpoint, like, you know, get those attributed to us or you or whoever. Also think, like, not sucks. Like, there should be, like, one offer. So, like, whoever wants to put their name on it, But, I mean, I it's funny because I I'm such a bullshitter. Like, I have I have sold the reverse concept to people, because, like, well, why do we wanna like, we're trying to create jobs, like, when I was a PFA, PCA. We wanna create jobs. What is making two billionaire for creating jobs? And people are like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I'm bullshitting. Right? But, like, I think the opposite, like, is very, very persuasive. Here's here's Daniel. Daniel, how are you, sir? Hi, everyone. How are you? Sorry for being late. No worries. Are you based in Mexico, or are you Silicon Valley, or where are you based? Yeah. I I'm based in Silicon Valley. Oh, very cool. Well, hey, man. Let me give you I'm in Ohio right now. I normally live in San Jose. And the then the rest of the team is kind of spread across United States and let them. Okay. Let me give you a little more color on the study that we're doing, and that'll kind of inform our court conversation. And then we'll do a round robin of introductions, and then I'd love to hear kind of what you guys do and your thoughts on some of the challenges that we're actually seeing in this space. Mhmm. So the partnership for America is is doing a study with CAF which is a $5,500,000,000 AUM development bank. Probably much more important now that The United States is not participating in IUB. They've contracted with the Partnership for Americas to kind of do this study to reinvent or reimagine their venture strategy across Latin America. Specifically focusing on, like, the smaller countries in the region. Mhmm. Version one point o of the partnership for Americas was partnership for Central America, where Mark Vigo and another couple of people reported directly to Kamala Harris, and their job was to grow the investment ecosystem in Centroamérica specifically to help decrease root causes of migration. In just a handful of years, they drove, like, 5 or $6,000,000,000 of new investment. Oh, perfect. So that's kind of the DNA. And the vision now partnership for The Americas globally or regionally is how do we scale that across all of Mhmm. And kind of our first foray is doing this with the calf. Mhmm. So I'm Jonathan Nelson. I'm a b and we are by half of my portfolio is from Ben in Latinoamérica because I grew up in Costa Rica and Honduras. So, I'm in Silicon Valley pasándola como güero hasta que me descubra la emigra. And then I'm now focusing on Nat and I are working on building an AI driven boutique investment bank to see if we can grow, automate, and streamline the processes involved, but also to drive more liquidity into as well as in The United States and the Valley. So that's me. Mark, do you wanna go next? Perfect. Thank you, Daniel. Mark Lopez, I spent twenty years around Washington and Latin America foreign policy related roles, house, appropriations, senate, authorization. I was the number two for the Latin America Bureau AID and then represented the US American Development Bank for several years, the last three of Obama in the first year of Trump. Did six years of startups in New York and about back in DC, working for the IDB part time and launching this full time. Awesome. Great to meet you. Right. Nati. Rodrigo. Nati. Yeah. Yeah. Nice to meet you, Daniel. My name is Rigoberto Romero. I've worked in the development world. I've worked for some NGOs. With strong presence in the globe, but I've also worked with Cabei, Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica, I manage the fund there for over $40,000,000 that with those funds we received from The Republic Of Korea, from the Ministry of Economy and Finance, and we invested them in the development of cooperation, technical cooperations, but also pilot projects and feasibility studies. And, I've also worked for the Millennium Challenge Corporation, or Millennium Challenge account in my country, in coordination with MCC and, now I'm working here with PFA trying to support in in in this venture capital, ecosystem engagement we have with CAF. Awesome. Awesome.  
Me: Nice to meet you, Daniel. I'm based in Córdoba, Argentina, in Jonathan, said, I work I work with him in HF Capital in operations side. And in the previous work, I've been platform in venture capital fund. And also I lead an incubator in some tech entrepreneurship programs in Argentina.  
Them: Buenísimo. Daniel, ¿quién eres? Who are you, man? Yeah. And what are you doing in what are you doing, and what's what's Gunderson doing? Sure. So the next guy, I'm originally from Mexico. You know, born and raised there in Mexico City. I I graduated 2011 from law school in Mexico. And I started, you know, working in m and a private equity. Back then. 2013, 2014, I started helping with some, you know, Mexican alumnus from Stanford, from Harvard that, you know, that that I wanted to bring BC into into Mexico. Was lucky to be on the right team, you know, on the right firm. Started helping doing some busy work in 2013 to '26 Found it very interesting, and then I came to The US to pursue some, you know, postgraduate degrees to better understand business rationale of VCs and private equity firms. And after that, I I was in Washington DC, Mark, as well. I I I wanted to do a little bit more VC, and I started doing some some VC there. Focusing in LatAm always. But there wasn't too much work there. So I I was part on a firm called Latham and Watkins. I was on the Latham team. And we were doing a lot of product finance and M and A in Latin America. After which five years ago, I I moved to Wenderson Those product finance deals were very interesting, but they they took quite some time to to, you know, to develop. You have the the experience there, and I just wanted that was a little bit more fast paced that I could actually see some you know, results in a shorter period of time. And that's why I I went back to to to to b BC. And I joined Gounder Sound five years ago and have been helping, you know, the Gunderson team, LATAM team on just growing the prep you know, helping funds investing there in Latin America and helping also Latin American companies think more a little bit more regionally or globally. Particularly. Awesome. Miguel, can you talk to me a little bit about Denverson and you guys just practice in LatAm, and you guys are kind of the the 500 pound gorilla in terms of Silicon Valley law firms in LatAm. But could you talk a little bit about that? Yeah. Sure. Absolutely. So Gunderson is you know, for US lenses, I would say we're a boutique firm. We're a huge boutique firm boutique in the way that all that we do is make your capital and start to work. We do, you know, senior work tax and employment and so on, but everything is focused on tech companies and and and these investors. Sometimes investors with a busy hat. But we're in a boutique on that way. We That's the value added that we bring in, and that's what it's interesting for us. And right now, yeah, for more than ten consecutive years, Gunderson has been the most active law firm doing, you know, this type of transactions. With tech companies and and and with, with startups. And so that's that's something that I think differentiate us from a lot of other firms We are not an old service firm. We don't have a great finance practice. We don't have you know, a white collar practice. We have criminal law, real state, and so on. We're just focused on yeah, tech companies and venture capital. What like, how many unicorns do you guys serve in LATAM? LATAM, we serve depending on when you count them because some have ceased to be unicorns. Would be around eight or nine. Unicorns. Eight or nine. Yeah. What are one of our goals is to make recommendations for, like, the small countries in Latin America, make recommendations on, like, legal and regulatory changes in specifically right now, Cincinnati, Mainea County, which is the four countries Honduras, Guatemala, Costa Rica, and also The Dominican Republic are markets that we're specifically focusing on. But more broadly across the region. Mhmm. If you had a magic wand, what are, like, the top three things that government regulators would do in those countries to grow their ecosystems. I think the first one is provide certainty, which is what Mexico, Brazil have with fintech loss. Which is, hey. What are the rules of the game? That has evolved quite a lot. Right? But that will be the first one. Just, you know, playing out yeah. Having having a field that you know how to play. Right? I think that would be one. The second one, even though, you know, and it's related with this, this first one is really training regulators. Because it's very different in having laws and then having laws that can be enforced. What what we have been facing and we continue facing a lot, particularly other than Brazil. Brazil has so many, but other than Brazil, what we have you know, we hit wall sometimes also in markets that are more advanced. There I mean, have a lit long way to go, but more advanced like Mexico, Chile. Is that the regulators have a very different mindset and and they like to do things way more conservative. Even on you know, compared to what the law says. And so training regulators, it's it's very important as well. And have them, you know, really understand the, you know, what we see, what start ups, what can they do in order, you know, bring more business a better you know, a better welfare for their countries. Those, dice con Juan, I mean, the first one without the second one, to be honest, is it doesn't help. Yeah. It bring it. Yeah. Daniel. To to to the extent of of your of your knowledge on on regulatory matters, Mhmm. Could you give us one or two examples in because we've heard a some we've heard some information on this, but we we we do want to, you know, we want we do want to have you know, three to five technical aspects or technical matters in which we say, okay, regulatory a regulatory framework for for this type of ecosystem for VCs works better in these countries than these other countries. But can we have well, we would surely would like to have, like, five technical aspects. Like, here, regulatory institutions think this way, whereas in the in the country that's working well, they're thinking this way. So what one or two differences would you, would you mind, like, letting us know in in which regulatory regulatory framework's working better because of this in Brazil or Chile, or Mexico, but in other regulatory frameworks in less developed countries, they don't have this and this. And they don't look at the VCs like this and this. What one or two people is So I think one is particularly on on both things that are regulated. Is having agencies and governments feel okay without a disclosure of 100% of ultimate beneficiary ownerships of you know, on busy phones. Why? Because phones, they don't like to provide that kind of information, you know, to to governments. They don't want to say who are their limited partners. They can say, you know, who who is above certain threshold and provide that name but without the specifics on, hey. This LP, you know, accounts for 15 or 20% of you know, of our fund and here's the list of the other 100 LPs. And that you know, those countries that don't have this requirement, that they ask you one by one each for each ultimate beneficiary ownership. That the law doesn't require them to ask for for this. We see them to have, you know, a better you know, better understanding on what BC is, what BC entails. The VCEs, you know, at the end of day, are subject to other regulations in their home jurisdictions that they need to provide that information they in in in those jurisdictions, but that they don't want to hand out this information to every local government. Right? So I think that's has been one aspect Can ask you on that one? Yeah. I mean, so I do a lot of work with UBO on the IDB side, the cap side, you know, the multimodal side, procurement. And as a lawyer, you know, for you and from a law firm, like, you think that's a good thing for the ecosystem to not have that disclosure, or is it a matter of, like, getting the comp countries to understand or the the the the people, the investors to understand, look. If you wanna play in this space, like, there's some transparent especially with multilaterals, there's some transparency that's required. I mean, I guess, like, you know, the investor probably wants zero transparency. And then then the country wants a 100% transparency. And in some countries, they may use it for the wrong reasons. Right? Like, you know, people don't wanna know what their wealth is, and they you know, you're in trouble. You're in you're getting kidnapped and or whatever. I don't know. Well, how do you how do you think about, that from a institutional standpoint? How do we recommendations? That's a great point because for for you know, for multilaterals, I think investors what we have seen, I mean, they always have some pushback, but they are fine. Usually providing that information to multilaterals. Because you know, they feel that that information is going to be safe. Right? There are no politics playing around. There are there is no government, you know, in it. There is you know, the multilaterals have way stricter you know, cybersecurity steps in place. Right? They don't they don't feel that way with governments, to be honest. And they they don't feel that, particularly in that governments have been shift from one aisle to the other in the last ten, fifteen years or so. They they see or or what they perceive is that, you know, one political party you know, can whenever there is change in in in that in the government, that that the another political party can't can be using that information for their advantage. So, it's it's a matter of trust. It's a matter on, you know, being sure that the information is not leaked is not being used as you were saying for other purposes. And that the end of the day, also, I think they fear, in addition to that, they also fear that there might be some, like, tax terrorism in the sense of, hey. This guy is disclosing that he owns, you know, this much of a fund, and then he also has these assets here. But, you know, yeah, it's also a matter of of that. Right? Not not being to yeah. For for for the rooms. So the LPs would be our tend to be more comfortable disclosing that to a DFI Correct. Whereas they're not comfortable disclosing it to, I don't know, the government of Honduras or the government de Guate, because you know, I'm I'm know that one of the presidents of Honduras Had some problems legally. Yeah. Exactly. And and not even to other governments that are or of of countries that are more politically stable. Makes sense. What are what are one of the things that came up in our conversations has been, like, the treatment of employee stock options. Mhmm. And the distinctions of, like, creating a legal entity that has both preferred and common shares and recognizing that Mhmm. Like, is would that be something that would be helpful for Honduras, Guate, Dominican Republic, Costa Rica, kind of think about? Or does the Cayman sandwich figure out all of those problems? Is that small boundless problem? That's that's a great question. I think probably on that front, the less they regulated is the best. In the way that currently in most LATAM jurisdictions and, you know, you have named all of, you know, Honduras, Costa Rica, and so on, I don't know if in all of them, but at least the vast majority of them they don't have a requirement for folks to be granted options at fair market value. So so what what companies do is if they have employees there, they can run options at 1¢. And the needing the minimum is value, and that is incentivized you know, the ownership by them, and that can create more wealth. There because their excess price is very low. Whereas, we kind of start regulating a little bit more the options by themselves, it could create more tax burden on them you know, and being a benefit for the government, supposed to benefit for the employees. And then with addition to the to the common and prefer and the type of, you know, of of of companies that they have. Some of them could very well make some amendments to their corporation's laws. To to, you know, allow for for this. Our what we have seen though, is that even in Brazil, like, don't like to invest on local entities. At least investors on the BC space. The very different on credit finance, very different on, you know, corporations, conglomerates that that they are comfortable investing there because have a footprint there. What what what we have seen is investors, they don't want, you know, to spend time, money, and resources on a day to day basis. Trying to understand what the local requirements are, and that's why they have felt comfortable investing on the sandwich. Sometimes when Cayman doesn't work, we have also seen you know, a a UK holding company being used. That also works. And then nowadays, with founders thinking a little bit more more, you know, with a worldwide view we have seen in the last year or so you know, founders using US corporations. I suppose a little bit even more than payment sandwiches for Latin. So that's interesting. Will be helpful to have all all of that in those countries, but I would say at least for for purposes of, you know, the busy view that we have, those wouldn't be very useful because at least BC investors wouldn't be investing in the local jurisdiction. Because they like Along with the how important is one of the questions that we've kicked around is you know, in ChatGPT tells us that these countries need to have, like, limited partnerships and, you know, like, a GPLP partnership structure. So that you can encourage fund formation and I don't know the single institutional investor who wakes up saying, I really want to invest in a Dominican, like, limited partnership. Mhmm. So how important like, zero to 10, how important would governments creating those types of fund structures be in those markets? I don't think that that that the funds drop would be that beneficial. I do think that some tax treaties would be beneficial. So for for for example, Mexico has a tax tree with Canada. Right? So not very busy, other private equities playing busy and so on. They love to use Canadian self peace in order to make their investments in Mexico and other countries just because tax wise, they, you know, they have a viral tax treatment. So rather than probably creating all those all all those legal entities in those local jurisdictions, having those tax treaties, like, not forcing but suggesting them to have tax treaties with with other countries in which they will they can decrease the the tax effects that they will have upon an exit. That might be, I think, more efficient on a on a mid to long term. How important do you think is standardization of kind of basic rules of the road for companies Mhmm. Would be important across, like, the twenty eight jurisdictions in LatAm. Like, how hard is it like, how much time and effort and legal time do companies spend establishing an opco in Ecuador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Guate, Dominican Republic. Like, how much overhead does that take? It it does take a lot of time. It will be great. There is there is one company that has started all of that, which is called Latitude. They were trying to know, a little bit formalize and make it more homogeneous homogeneal. I know if the English word is correct. But they were working towards that. Regretfully, they decided you know, to change their business model because the volume was not enough. But but they already took steps towards that, It helped a lot of companies, Brazil, Chile, Uruguay, Argentina, Mexico, and Colombia, I think. But then they say, hey. We cannot scale it. Without help from a multilateral, from governments, and so on. So I think it will be great to have. Having said that, in every jurisdiction, we do find, like, different a little bit different paths or roadblocks on how to think all of those items and usually are driven by tax rationale and tax analysis. Why more than corporate than corporate analysis? So, yeah, that will be that will be very helpful. The problem is is there willingness enough to have that? Right? No. That's actually really interesting. I wanna be of your time, but, Rodrigo, not being marked, do you guys have additional questions? And I suspect you wanna have a follow-up with Daniel at some point. Be great. Yeah. I would love to preserve, like, ten minutes to come back to you and kinda run through some initial thinking and and concepts, but this is a really helpful start. No. Yeah. Very, very grateful for your time. I mean, when you think of any model countries, any what's the country that jumps out from the from the things you mentioned at the beginning? You know, legal certainty, etcetera. To be honest, Brazil. Brazil, there's more legal sentence. There is there's more information out there. There's more transparency out there. The issue that we have say we have is Brazil is is very different from the other Spanish speaking countries. Then by themselves, they have some differences. But the others one are a little bit more culturally a little more aligned. Than than Brazil. So it has been very hard to kind of take Brazil and say, hey. This this should work here and there. It has been with with some tweaks. But right now, Brazil is by far the most advanced in all of this. And if you book a Spanish speaking Latin American country, what's that? Chile? Or I would say Chile And Mexico. It's a it's it's a little bit of a mix. So, for example, Chile has a great program called Corfo, Mhmm. Over there. A the government hands out money to invest. Investors, and then the investors go and, you know, invest in companies. Right? It has some regulatory issues because then you need you know, whenever these companies start growing, and as you mentioned, like, no one no international investors wants to go at least BC wants to go and fund itself the Chilean entity. But rather they need a a holding company somewhere else. They need approval, and they need to request a lot of permissions to to do something. So there have been instances in which it was great Corfa handing out money to investors and then investors deploying those into Chilean startups. But then it became a problem in which, hey, you are not letting those startups grow more. In Chile and then also regionally. So there has been, you know, upsides and downsides on that. But that has been a very good a very good program. That I think could be replicated in Central America. Okay. Great. And, Daniel, I'd like if I had a magic wand and I don't know how this would work and how budget would work or any like that. But would you guys be interested in collaborating on, like, position papers or collaborating on, like, basic suggestions of regulatory frameworks for these countries. These multilaterals to be able to kind of say, hey. Yes. Yes. Because part of what we're supposed to do is to make recommendations on Central America, but my guess is that we're probably gonna be doing stuff across all of the region. Is that something that you guys would be interested in collaborating on? That's something that, yeah, I would be very interested, and I think folks in our team, one of the great things that that we have on the team is you we have one Colombian, one Argentinian, Uruguayan, a Chilean, two Mexicans. So we have even though we don't have someone from Central America, like, the team does cover a vast majority of, you know, of of LATAM. And each one will you know, has, like, very specific and and and good, you know, takes that we probably you know, that me or someone else lack in because we are from another country. So Yeah. I mean Sorry. No. Was made a joke about the World Cup must be interested in your office. Right? Yeah. Sorry. No. Daniel, this is fantastic. I mean, if I had a magic one, it would be a start up basically can set up a Delaware sea, but within, like, three weeks, develop and half of the countries in Latin America Mhmm. Integrate with payment systems across half of you know, most of Latin America, and have a start up to handle HR compliance in all of those so that you can without having to deal with any kind of crap like the EU, just basically operate across the entire region like it's one market. Mhmm. That would great. Then, you know, that's a twenty year project, but I think it's kinda worthwhile to kinda chip away at for a while. But that's the kind of stuff that I would love to be thinking about in the future. Perfect. Yeah. Yeah. But Daniel, muchísimas gracias, caballero. Un abrazo, and when I'm back in San Jose, I'll take you out for coffee or a drink or something. Awesome. Sounds good. Thank you. Jonathan, can you hold on one second? I'm not I'm doing you.