Meeting Title: Mark, Geoffrey, Nat, Jonathan, Rigo Date: Mar 9 Meeting participants: Mark, Rigoberto Romero, Geoffrey Kirkman, Natasha Ibarra, Aline Murlick  Transcript:   Them: Hello? Hello. Hi, Mark.   Me: Hi, Monica.   Them: How are you? Good. How are you? I'm good. Hi, guys. Jonathan.   Me: Aileen. Thank you so much for taking the meeting. So   Them: No problem. My pleasure.   Me: I can give you a little background on what PFA is doing, and we'll do a quick round of introductions. And then I'd love to learn about StartSee, what you guys are doing, how you guys started, and that sort of stuff.   Them: Okay.   Me: So, the partnership for The Americas is, version two point o of what we did. In version one point o, it was a small group that reported directly to Kamala Harris, and the goal was to grow Central America's economy. And in a handful of years, a couple of years, they got about 5 or $6,000,000,000 of new business commitments to Central America. And the idea was to stop people from walking north. Mark and Jeffrey's vision for PFA two point zero is to grow the economies of all of Latin America. And one of the ideas that we've been kicking around is tax open an office in Silicon Valley, specifically to help companies from around and governments from around Latin America have kind of, like, an establishing point as well as maybe provide some education that sort of stuff. So, obviously, what you guys are doing at StartSee is is similar to kind of what we're thinking about. And so wanted to have that conversation, but I'll have Mark start the introductions, and then we'd after we're done, we'd love to hear about yourself. What brought you to Valley and what you guys are doing? Mark?   Them: Great. Thank you, Aileen. Mark Lopez, twenty years in Washington, D C. Type jobs in Latin America and development. Political roles in USAID, and then I represented The US in the American Development Bank, for three years for the last bit of Obama and the first bit of Trump, and then six years startups in New York and now back, doing some work with the IDB and this CAF project that we'll tell you about, but also working with these esteemed gentlemen. Thank you. Hi.   Me: Mister Jeffrey,   Them: I'm an esteemed gentleman friend of Mark's. And I I I guess most relevant, I I spent little over ten years leading in fundraising in Brazil for Harvard and Brown universities. So got to know a lot of companies and families in Brazil. And I've worked most my career in all over Latin America, but really enjoyed I I I don't I speak Puerto New York, so I don't I don't unfortunately unfortunately, I I I was raised speaking Spanish, but I had to learn Portuguese a bit. When suddenly I was thrust into the whole world of Brazil. So nice to meet you. Nice to meet you. Portanhol makes lots of things easier. It it really does. And I a week in Brazil, it's I think I'm with the best of them. So Nice to meet you, Aline. My name is   Me: ¿Rico?   Them: Roberto Romero. I'm based in Honduras. Come from the development world, also working in the financing world with multi multilateral development bank called Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica, BCE, Cabay here in Central America, I've also worked on the public credits side of things in in the in government. You know, making sure that we are able to to to fund we were able at that time to fund, you know, to have financing activities in in the country to be able to fund the budgets. But, also, I've I've had some share of experience with some trust funds, which I've administered. One that the last one was had a $50,000,000 budget. And it was aimed to execute technical corporations as well as pre feasibility and feasibility studies. For projects. So nice to meet you. Nice to meet you all, guys. So I I work for for about two years now, and Startsy is an education company. So we don't have this, this role about developing businesses or or ecosystems, but we promote education and innovation. Lots of entrepreneurs and executives come to from Brazil come to the Silicon Valley through STARTSE. To Better Understand The Ecosystem To Learn About AI Mostly Actually. And To Change The Mindset. Because, Lots Of Them Come From Big Companies, From Traditional Companies. So They Have A Very Traditional Mindset, And They Come To Understand How Things, Run-in In Silicon. The Silicon Valley, and how things happen so fast And and so easily how these companies get all this success and well, this is our main goal today is bring them knowledge and change mindsets. So this is the the why, Bica. No problem.   Me: So Helene, what's sorry, what's the what's the program like And, like, walk me through an executive in Brazil wanting to show the starts you program. Like, walk me through what that's like. And then what do they learn, what do they get while they're in Silicon Valley?   Them: Yeah. Yeah. I'll give you an example I can share. An agenda with you from the next group coming this month. So we start the week talking about culture. They we have a little bit of history, and culture on the on Monday. They come from Monday to Friday. On Tuesday, they, we start with AI, with exponential technologies, We talk about about AI agents. We show them tools to how to use AI in their days and and then on Wednesday, they normally we normally take them to companies to talk to entrepreneurs with startups that are doing different kinds of projects energy, software, and well, mostly Brazilian. Entrepreneurs that had success in the Valley. Thursday, the we talk about robotics. About mobility, some more about AI. All all the program is   Me: It's on mute.   Them: is about AI also. But we focus on Friday in, hardware. Also about robotics and how things are have a a fast pacing in this area. And when it started, it it's not from today. It's it's not from tomorrow. It's from thirty years ago. So more, six years ago. And and then on Friday, we make we usually make a wrap up from the week. And we try to translate all the the knowledge they got this week and we transform it in in in a plan for when they go back to Brazil to start putting all this knowledge in practice. So this is a very shortly result, but I can show you, I can share the the all the program with the all the the explanation about each session and we can sure share all this with you guys.   Me: How much does it usually cost an executive and how large are your cohorts?   Them: We have 45 people groups. Yeah. We have a room in, the Circuit Lounge office in Maltaville. And it depends on the program. We have different different costs depending on the the group. We have mixed groups This month, we have a a company group So the costs are are different. For the mixed groups, I have, like, like, 30 k, cost for for the the week. Okay.   Me: Rigo?   Them: Yes. Thank you. I just wanted to yeah. I just wanted to ask you,   Me: You had a question?   Them: So during our assessments and interviews, capacity building and training has been, you know, it has appeared it has appeared in in all our discussions that there's more need for this. So taking this into account, that that's what that's what you're doing in, you know, education on on the VC ecosystem. What parts of the sorry. What what parts of the curricula you think are more demanded by the the people, the companies, the funds, or or whichever is in the need of capacity building. And you mentioned one of them AI being AI and specifically what in AI, but if also, if there's something additional that are more interested or more they they seek more of this information. Thank you. They depends. When they, when they discovered this this intention to come, They think they want to know big tech They want to visit Big Tex. Once they are here, and start the program, they, understand the value about talking with entrepreneurs. With people who is, who is effective effectively working on an innovation in innovation, effective effectively are doing, something different. Alex is a a a big star. So the the conversation with him is amazing. He they open their minds and but mostly they they come to because they have this, I think this fantasy about, watching what is happening in the but they doesn't know yet when they are in Brazil. What the most what is the most the richer richer experience here. That is talk with people who is a maker. Who is doing, who is working with technology, who is being part of this transformation. So I don't know if I I answered your your question.   Me: How do you think people change like, from the beginning and not or an executive comes towards the end. Like, what are the things that they say are most impactful to them?   Them: I think is that change? I think no. They they always mention about the change of mindset. This is the strongest, thing they get home. Because, as I said, they come mostly from traditional companies. With huge process for every single action. With many barriers to approve a simple project. And they and then they come here and see, projects running smoothly with no barriers, with, people people having, the decision in their hands. To run tests to change the the way things are are happening. So I think this is the main the main thing they they get back home, the change of mindset. That things can do can be easier than they see in their, in their routines.   Me: Have you had people do repeat visits? Have you had executives come back a second time   Them: Yes.   Me: or do they refer employees or other people?   Them: Yeah. Repeat. Is it Yes. We do. Some of them come after two years. And they they always say that how much it changed the the the ecosystem changed things well, we have we had, like, three years ago, four years ago, the it was the metaverse thing. Now AI is the big thing. So it changes, so fast. And then they they they see these changes. They notice these changes.   Me: Can can you talk a little bit about circuit launch and the space that you guys are in?   Them: Yes.   Me: And how that informs   Them: Yes.   Me: their experience?   Them: Yeah. So, we previous, had an dedicated office in Palo Alto, And then, we decided to move to circuit launch because we don't have a full time need for this room. This is a very good space. We replied our our previous office in this space. This is very comfortable. We brought our our furniture, our chairs, and this is a very good environment because they, our groups always meet people who is in fact, making new things. So they they have a chance to talk to these people to understand this this robotics field the makers are always really, interested in showing their experiments. And, yeah, this is a very good environment. The building is very it's a very good well, they have a very good structure. I don't know if you wanna know about this this side. Yeah. They have a kitchen we can use. We have yeah, all this structure, we need to do that. We don't have   Me: So   Them: so many restaurants closed, so we need to move by bus to that. Or when we need, we call a catering company to do some some of the But we usually organize our cough breaks and with the structure we have there. We they have parking. Free parking that is so   Me: k. So   Them: important. And   Me: so, Rigo and Jeffrey, just so that you guys know, circuit launch is kind of like the   Them: Yeah.   Me: Silicon Valley garage where Hewlett and Packard kind of built their stuff. But it's they have everything inside of this big coworking space. So that you can actually do small run manufacturing.   Them: Yeah.   Me: So they have, like, electronic stations, They have manufacturing equipment. They have, like, a CNC mill. They have laser cutters. They have everything that you need to kind of prototype and actually build, and then they rent out office space or garage space to about 80 different companies and all of them are building some type of AI driven robot.   Them: Yeah.   Me: Anything from, like, a small foot by eight foot wide tank tread agricultural robot that's RC but eventually will be completely AI driven to a teddy bear, like a teddy ruckspin,   Them: Mhmm.   Me: but you can have a full conversation with So a kid can basically go back and forth. It has different sensors, so it knows the audio, it knows the room, it knows the size of the room, what's in it, who they're talking to, it remembers who they're talking to, that sort of stuff. To people building bionic legs who they actually had you know, guy lost his leg to cancer, and so he's actually building, a robotic digital appendage. And so the the group of people is in the middle of this, and it's literally right outside the door they can go and see people building AI first robots. It's pretty amazing. And it's a friend of mine that actually runs that Alex Dantas. He's probably one of the top AI robotics specialists or knows everything kind of going on in terms of AI robotics in Silicon Valley. So he's a a great resource. And I they asked me to come and talk from time to time. I tend to actually talk about the economic impact of Silicon Valley. But it's kind of a mind blowing experience for people coming in from outside. And I love organizations like StartSee. There's probably, like, two or three others that kind of do similar stuff, and most of them are at programs that bring executives in. One of them brings focuses in on university students like MBA students and people getting their masters. Aileen, what's what is your biggest challenge in terms of interacting with the students? And in five years, you guys are incredibly successful What have you guys succeeded at doing?   Them: Just an addition to your talk about circuit launch, they have a huge community. Robotics community. And they have total authority in this field. So they are really important in this field. Alex, for sure, is an authority. In robotics. Not just here, but, worldly talking. So, about the groups, I so I host people. I, my my challenge is make them comfortable and and and that day and that they can, get what they came for. So I try we always try to understand individually before they come and while they are here, what they are here for. If you work in a a financial field, if you work with mention if you work with agro we try to understand each one, needs to better, connect connect them with people who is doing things, innovation in their fields. If we have more than six, seven people we from an an specific field we try to include in our program some visit, some talks, and focused in this field. So we bring X experts to talk to them. We have like, half hours, and moments, they can talk to them. Oh. And privately, or we can, introduce people who can't come, but but, it's a good fit, to them. So they they they perceive value value about this connection. So we are always attentive to to give them the most they can they can take from the program from this week, from our connections, And Alex is always, a very good resource for sure. Because he knows everyone.   Me: He does. Aileen, thank you so much for your time. I really appreciate it.   Them: No problem. See.   Me: Sorry the team kinda had to bounce. Things have been kind of crazy busy. But, obrigado, and I   Them: Nada.   Me: and I suspect on the future we might actually be in touch to kind of learn a little bit more about your program. But thank you so much, Aileen. Really appreciate it.   Them: No problem. I I'm always here to help.   Me: Thank you so much.   Them: It's a pleasure.   Me: Cheers.   Them: Thank you. Have a great   Me: Have the phone? Yeah. The last two meetings were not so good. Why not? I don't know. I think Chris and Jeffrey were bored. They left before the meeting was done. You okay? Yeah. Or were they bored about I don't know. She was just a bad the two people were bad speakers. Well, that's not your fault. Yeah. The next two, I think, are gonna be great. Well, I'm sorry. You're disappointed. Thank you. You know what I think? What's that? Your delicious. Oh, thank you. Thank you so much. Think you might be the most delicious person in the whole known universe. The known universe is pretty big. Yep. I was just reading something today about Jewish narrative literature Yeah. And how it applies to Genesys One. Yeah. It's intended to be ambiguous. It doesn't fill in details because that's not its purpose. So we don't know why there was a snake. And we don't know what seven days means because it was never intended. To be scientific. To be scientific. That's interesting. Yeah. I would like to read a little bit more about that style of writing, but, basically, the it's really not how we write. Yep. We have lots of details. You know? Look at a movie. It's all details for a long time on the screen. Yep. And this it's not about that. It's about zooming in to the important stuff. And that's it. God, world. Mhmm. So when people are taking the literal six day creation, because it's says that in the scripture, they're not reading it in the context of when it was written. O forty five okay I'll be in the office. Oh, thank you. You're gonna be with your feet. Yeah. So I registered for fintech week in The UK. Good for you. And Chris said if you want to invite people let them know that growth investment pre IPO is a good He's excited about what we're doing with the pre IPO round. Do you know? He's such a douchebag. He is a douchebag. My phone is going off. I had to be clean. Clean is good. Clean is important. Mhmm. Oh, I love it. Oh, I love it. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay. I forgot my glasses. I ordered glasses wipes. Yeah. Wet ones. Oh, nice.