Meeting Title: Level Up talent strategy for Central American tech nearshoring with Jose and Louis
Date: Feb 12


Transcript:
 
Them: Hola, Natasha.  
Me: Muito bem, muito bem.  
Them: Wen wen I vos? Qué bueno. Hey, Natasha. Somebody's trying to join me. I'll explain who who he is on this. Given when they oh, it's just Louis' assistant. He wants us to find him a client, but I'll explain. It's part part of the whole ecosystem stuff. He's doing some interesting stuff. And here he is. I just my Google stuff. Hello, good afternoon. Hello, Frenchmen. How are you? Oh, wow. I the brought the whole team. Yeah. I I was thinking that's a lot of paper I was expecting. Another year. I I needed backup. I understand. Hello. Nice to meet you. Oh, Jeff. A pleasure to see you. Louis. How are you? I forgot we met last time. Sorry about that. Someone else is trying to get in here, one of the other Jose figured out okay. Yeah. Jose is part of my team. I also need backup since there are so many people never new. Well, we want you met Jeffrey. Hey, Jose. Hey, Mike. We'll do a quick round. You might have met Andre. Andre was with PCA. The previous sort of organization, as was Rigo. They've both now, transitioned over to PFA. You may not have gotten the emails, but we absorbed PCA on January 1. And then we're starting a project with shortly on startup ecosystems in Guatemala, Honduras. Costa Rica, and Dominican Republic. We'll come back to you on that project later to basically understand your life. And Natasha is working on that project with CAF from Córdoba Argentina, and she's a a start up whiz. And worked a lot with ecosystems and this sort of stuff. So we can skip. If it's okay, skip the introductions on our side because we'll just jump right in. But I think, Louis, you want me to pull a magic out of my hat again like we did last time? Long story short, like, we met Louis at the flea in Guatemala, like, three years ago now. And and and you'll you'll understand why he's like a French fireman that went to Guatemala and then started a company in that exploded and we started another one. And then I was in the hotel lobby of somewhere Yeah. This seemed like you said processing it. Yeah. This is that's so crazy with us. The guy that had m IBM, like, GBM Right? It was IBM's reseller in Central America. And then it said they, you know, get over here, Luis, in five minutes, and then yada yada. That worked out into some deal, which I'd love to hear more about. And now you want us to recreate that, which, of course, we can do in five minutes. But wanted to just, like, yeah, reconnect, hear what your challenges are, I'm sure AI is changing everything for you because it's changing everything for me, and I'm not even in this world. But, yeah. So we'll, we're all ears. Okay. Nice to meet you, Andrea, Netha, Rigoberto. A great pleasure. So, yeah, that was a a a per like, shortcut of of the story. Mark, you are way better than I am about this. So, yeah, we are still working with GBM. We are growing with them. Right now, we got some a big project from Europe on board that are helping us grow faster and bigger as they gave us, like, anything we needed to cover tuition fee for training more students. And, we are play planning to to scale the project to 20,000 people trained for twenty thirty. With, funding a total funding we evaluated at, $48,000,005 for the following four years so that we can train this amount of people. So we are creating a nearshoring strategy we call act big. And we've got some government on board El Salvador, Guatemala are part of it now, and there are some other companies that are, being, like, some hyperscalers that are telling us, like, we really need this hotbed of talent in Central America to grow our business. So right now, we come to is Microsoft Amazon. We are trying to get Google. It's not that easy, but, should be, something we we we could get on 2026. And right now, we we are on our way to to scale the program training mainly in AI. We were the first one of the first program. I don't know if the first, but probably one of the first, program training AI is the for GBM, which is the biggest company of technology in Central America. Like, based and from Central America. And, we created their AI course. And from that point, we started to gain bit of recognition and allowed us to to train more more people for more company locally. So, right now, we have trained over 4,000 students. We are on our way to train this amount every year, until thousand thirty. That's our goal. And, at this point, we should reach our 20,000, training people for the hotbed of talent that should, like, position Central America as a nearshoring and offshoring, strategical place for companies that want to develop in the American American's continent. So that's basically what, what we aim to do right now. And we have been, like, activating a few more leverage to reach that. And one of these is, like, creating companies that is actually giving the first opportunity for the students because we saw that there there is need of talent, but mid level talent And low level talent is, quite hard to get them a first opportunity in company even GBM and others, even though they are part of this vision. So we started to create ITO IT outsourcing company locally. That will give them their first shot so that they can get the experience they need to to scale the in the area. So that's basically where we are at the moment. And, I don't know, Jose, if you want to add something. Yeah. Truly. You, Louis. Yeah. So the situation, how I see it, Mark, is that Louis has created two different situations. Right now, that are gravitating towards one which is that there's a whole lot of money coming to training people, hitting in Guatemala, en El Salvador. So but the situation is that the that money that is coming for training is it not gonna come forever unless we fix a situation that has to be fixed in order for that money to keep flowing. Which is where are we going to put them to work after they are graduated? That that's the situation that we're trying to fix here. So what we see is that there is a lot of alignment, that Louis has been working on for the the French stick, which is an initiative coming from the French government, which is to support different initiatives of businesses here in the in the in the region. And that we can clearly see how we can support that activity with the trainees that are going to be going through Level Up. But, we still don't have still are missing the piece which is, who's gonna hire them. So that support that is coming, in investment terms cannot be cannot be cannot be closed in its circle. If we don't have a company that hires those people. Now I'm emphasizing that because even though we have been trying to create those jobs here in the companies that we have alliances with. That's been difficult in the rate that the coming the incoming money from for training, it's it's, it's getting to to us. So that's creating a big gap where, if we could only find places to put them in working, then, more money will come for training, and hence, the the the activity of of the whole country will will increase too. So what we have in mind, it's a a broker. Which is a, the best word that we have to call it. Which is a company or a person or an entity, that give us access to the demand that specific companies might have around technology. Profiles. And whatever those company profiles are, professional profiles for companies are we can train them, and we can put them into work in the amount of time that they might be expecting upon, due conversation, of course, but it's absolutely possible. And, again, we have we have secure thanks to the help of Louis, a lot of investment towards that, but we need to close the cycle again. So we're hoping that you can bring out some light in to the point that okay. So here might be a broker. That might give you guys what you need, which is the demand. And then we can activate all of the rest of the pieces of the machinery so this strategy can come to life. I hope I was clear enough. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But so let me understand. So you got you got $48,000,000 to trend 20,000 students in, like, what, six months, AI crash course? What's the training, like, sense? Yeah. We can I think that the the best way to match it with the current demand in The United States that might exist is to ask a I don't know, maybe a Walmart company, just to give you an example? In in the lack of a better one, but a a Walmart company that has a huge activity online, through their application or through their website, and we can bring in some people to give support to their operations. So that that that that operation that the company might have online like Walmart, it's it's an of someone giving support to that operation. What is that people hire? That's what we need to figure out. If they are hired, for instance, in The United States, then that there's a huge chance that they can save some just by hiring the people that we have to train. Or if they are having headaches with people in in the oriental part of the worm or the indian part of the worm, then we can maybe bring that business here to a a nearshore configuration and that's gonna be better to in terms of, the kind of, in quality of support that the final customers of a Walmart company as an example, might receive. Understood. Yeah. Yeah. If but but that's just an example. There might be But so yeah. Problems on the supply side, basically. I mean, on the demand side. You're doing the supply. You're worried about the Excited. But but who's paying for the supply? Who's paying Right now, you you remember that guys that connected with us Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Two meetings ago. That's the guy. The the the point is I thought he was paying the whole the point of this model was that the people who wanted the bodies were paying you for the training. So they were the off takers. Yes. And then you gave them a guarantee and all that. Yeah. So DVM's gonna hire some of them. Right? But they're not gonna hire all of them? That's what I don't understand. Why why are they paying you to hire why are they paying you to train people that they're not gonna hire? Oh, no. Well, because, I think the the reason why you see a an apparent difference there is that when GBM came to to to the ring, play with us, they were having an specific amount of people in mind, which were recipients of assistance, any kind of assistance or help that might come from, don't know what's the name of that in in English, but that corporate, I don't have the term. However, right now, it's different because what Louis was working on over the past one year or so, it's in opening the flow of investment from international corporation from Europe to train people here in the region. So that changes the game a bit because, it's not more about just, GBM and what GBM Needs And What Their Expectation Towards Their Commercialization Goes. But It's About An Interest From International Corporation From Europe interested in generating the kind of quality professionals here in the region so they can aspire to something else than just working for a local company. Exact. Yeah. So the the European donors are piling on to GBM's money. Much is from European donors versus how much is GBM? Yeah. For GBM at the moment, it's around $250,000. And that allowed us to train around 110, 120 people. And, from European Union, we are talking about $700,000. But wait so where's the 48,000,000 come from? No. This one, we are raising it. We that's the the one we need to raise until we we can train that So right now, we have, around one five hundred. 1,000,500. And with ITO company, we opt to get, like, one other part Then with other company getting in, on onboard right now, which is Amazon, with a strategy from their reseller and the implementers local implementer, we are getting, like, maybe 500,000 more. And we we are piling up this amount together. So apart from that, there is one new vehicle we just launched with a local bank where they are basically financing the amount of students we can have a guarantee of recruitment. For. So let's say, GBM says, okay. We we are going to finance this amount, but we also need let's say, 20 people more. The bank can emit the student loan. We created with them with an interest rate that for the region is very low. And, as soon as they start to work, they have, like, a time, let's say, three months of where they don't have to pay anything, and afterwards, they start paying back. This student loan. So that's a very new model here in Guatemala, at least. That they allowed us to to to do and create at a very really lower interest rate than it is normally. Thanks to the warranty of employment. The company, emit for. So we have these different vehicles And through these different vehicles, we need to get to these 48,500,000, by 2030. To train this 20,000. Student. Sorry. I wasn't clear. Okay. Gotcha. So you you basically have essentially fee for service where companies are paying you to develop their pipeline of talent. In a market based way. Right? Like, they're just paying you pure market base. I need talent. My cost of acquisition of new talent is x. I'm gonna pay you that for the front loads. I'm gonna get a better bigger funnel of local stuff. I know I need locally, and I'm paying you direct. That's clear. You're trying to pile on to that donor funds from others, to sort of say, hey. This is working. We're creating talent for companies. This is the cost per person trained, etcetera. Give us donations, and then we will train them and then help them find a job just like GBM, but now you don't have a job. You need the jobs. So, I mean, long story short, that that that's crystal clear. I mean, we I think we wanna help you with that problem. Like, that's a good problem to have. Right? Like, if you have I know. Supply problems or demand problems, And so, I mean, I think we can think about you know, I'd I'd love to hear from Natasha, but, like, you know, we could serve as a promotion sort of vehicle around sort of this thing, or we could do some sort of partnership to, like, get the word out. But, I mean, this is the essentially, the similar challenges we've discussed in other fora that, you know, we wanna help that creation. I mean, on on the supply side, my sense is it's I mean, I actually don't I think it's not gonna be like company per company. I assume it's gonna be like, go to Walmart, for example. They're like, oh, can I talk to Walmart? You guys need I I suspect Walmart has you know, 50 different providers that are down the supply chain of their, you know, tech needs. Right? So they have vendors, vendors, vendors, vendors, vendors, vendors, and then those guys hire whoever they want. The goal is to, basically, you need to sell you know, the talent from the region in terms of capabilities and cost, people don't care where that talent comes from. I mean, when it when we first hired Andrea, we we hired her through a body shop in the one second. Sorry. I got some blood don't work in my house. We need to well, yeah. So the like, a body shop that is essentially that broker. Right? So there are lots of body shop that you must know that do remote stuff that was you assist me. There's all kinds of body shops that essentially hire remote talent for remote work. Whether it's technology, I mean, coding or AI, whatever, or phone answering or whatever, it doesn't really matter is my point. I think I think the goal there is then to I don't know. Just one idea is that build a network of body shops who then become resellers of of your bodies, essentially, and that you sell them a body that they have found a contract for through their whole network and that they give you a cut of that body. I mean, I'm I'm just thinking, like, when once you're done with the you just want the money to pay you know, to train the person. Once you're done with the person, do you wanna make more money off them? Do you get a cut of their future revenues, or do you get a bonus for them being hired? Yes. Actually, is there the talent that are not refinanced by the big company actually, from this sponsored fund we get from the company. We can, like, place them in some companies that will pay us an entire wage of this talent as a fee for finding the right talent they needed. So that's, the way we we get another income out of, the talents that are not recruited by the sponsors of our boot camps. Then the cuts we get out of the work capacity of this company we don't really get that. But, that's why we want to create our own solving this problem and solving the first experience problem, which is, like, the the we get more often, when they are being, like, selected, it's like, oh, they don't have previous experience, and we need them to have at least one year experience. So that's the reason why we we needed to create this other company as an ITO company, and now we are looking for our first clients, like, everywhere. That's why I contacted you and I told you, if you know all some companies that have this vision that could help us like, place the first bunch of student to show what we are capable of and and grow it together, that would be, tremendous help. And, that's also a training, actually, we developed for GDM managed services, IT. So they it's it's it's a bunch of, of persons that are giving a remote IT service from Central America to the world. And we we need a a client that would recruit that or AI related job or cybersecurity related or data analytics related jobs. So one of these is, like, the one we can provide right now. It would be helpful to to know, that's specifically what we're talking about. I mean, you know, these are all these all sound great, but this sounds very general. So IT jobs, AI jobs, Walmart, like, these are like, what, like, can these people do be good to I mean, you don't need to tell us right now, but I'm sure you have that sort of sheet of here, like, skills they have, you know, the profile profiles of companies. I mean, every company has some sort of IT or AI component. Right? So you know, but that doesn't help in sort of narrowing down, like, what why someone would choose to these as Mark says, these bodies, which seems like it's make it makes it sense or if I don't know. Especially when we're talking about cuts of the bodies, like, anyway, what are we talking about? You know what mean? So I think I think I mean, people are gonna decide this. Is it purely cost driven? Is there some extra special sauce skill that they have? I mean, there has to be a differentiator here. And I'll I'm just hearing costs. And you have and is there proof that the quality is as high as the that people would find? I guess there's a whole series of questions I would have. That would be good to I mean, if so this is I would love to help, find you someone who needs these bodies. This I think there's a lot more information would need to have. Okay. We we have a pencil detail. We have everything about the outcoming profile out of the of the boot camp. We have, like, all this information, but what Jose was saying is that we can train also what they need because, usually, it's a very specific need. And let's say we have a the body, but not the cell. The the sound would be like the the specific the the specificity. I'm sorry. There is noise. So the specificities because they are, for example, using the Google suite. In their companies. They're not using Microsoft. So we train in AI, but we can specialize in Microsoft. Because that's what the licenses they are paying in the company. Or they're using the Google environment. So we can, like, give this Google to the body we train, which is a specialist in AI. And that does, like, all the basics to be doing, like, any kind of work in AI, low level development, software integration, and so on, or oriented to marketing generation, for example, and then we need to know what is the specificity the company needs so that we can add a amounts of more training so that it fit perfectly the need of the company. That's that's what Jose was was saying, and I I can send you the the global pencil with let's say, the the big stone of the training they received. Over this ten year this is ten months of training. And, what kind of specialist they are, even even though it's a junior specialist. Like, what kind of abilities they developed? Yeah. However, though, all we can do is we can give you other of the kind of company that we have in mind that might be a great candidate to becoming a client on this this kind of ecosystem that we're putting here. So we're talking about a company that has at least 50 people, between fifty and one hundred people in the IT area of their operations. That it's struggling right now with. I've financial situation. And they might benefit from a cut in the different amount of salaries that they might be paying to this IT department. And we can offer them a huge amount of talent in terms of people that they can directly use for their operations, and we can polish those aspects that are technical aspects. Like, say, if they're using a specific system, or if they are using an specific technology, then we can train people just to do that. So that way, the company might be getting benefits in the decrease of, of costs in the implementation of their technical solutions for their final customers. Or internal customers, and at the same time, they can be receiving a a bit more quality from the human talent that we can train here. Because this is something that we haven't mentioned up to this point, but it's the fact that within the the level of company, one of the key tasks there is to train people in something that might be me not including to other plans, educational plans outside there. Which is the mindset of the people that is being giving assistance. Plus, the, language that we're being focused a lot on that. So it can be a seemingly service without any any kind of differentiation than what you can receive in homeland, for instance. So Sí. That that's the kind of company that we have in mind. Again, a company that is struggling right now, with financial, with with the financial area, and that is between feet and 100 people in the tech department. Either for internal customers or external customers. Inversion You are I don't mhmm. Go ahead. I'm sorry. Is if we thought about if we thought about, specializing in sectors, like, it seems like if, you know, every every industry and every sector is needing these sorts everyone everyone has an IT department. Right? So but if you get to be known in a particular sector or you start focusing on sectors, if you is there any research done on here here's a particular area. I mean, I don't I you know? Schools or I mean, I don't even know. I know where to begin here. Oh, go ahead. Instead of me generally, like, like, instead of focusing on size as the differentiator, think about it as as industry specific identifying here some industries where that are with costs, and and we really wanna become known as the go to place in this sector. Gotcha. Okay. Well, in that case, I can tell you about two different industries. The first one is one that well, the origin one of the founders of Level Up, which, worked with Louis for a long time, He's a specialized programmer in in the banking industry. So banking here in Central America, it's been a huge a huge deal in terms of programmers that are being specialized in that area. So just to give you an idea, the the development that happened between 2010 here or '2, it's it's all of the banking entities in the in the in the area. They have been already implementing applications for their operations. So every single banking player in in the region it's decreasing the the presence that they have in brick and mortar. So they can migrate data systems to their applications. Now that migration from brick and to applications phone applications, online applications, it's increased specialty that the region has in the development of banking solutions in different areas. Oh, yeah. No problem, Thanks. Eso.