Meeting Title: Mark, Geoffrey, Nat, Jonathan, Rigo
Date: Mar 19
Meeting participants: Mark, Rigoberto Romero, Geoffrey Kirkman, Natasha Ibarra, Francisco Meneses, Mmccarville


Transcript:
 
Me: No Francisco?  
Them: Then we go  
Me: How are you?  
Them: ¿Cómo estás?  
Me: How are you, sir?  
Them: Very  
Me: Doing very, very well.  
Them: It's great.  
Me: I think we're gonna have a I think we're gonna have a smaller team today.  
Them: Okay.  
Me: Did Jimmy Rigo, did you and Francisco meet the last time?  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Okay. Francisco, we just wanted to have a follow-up call. And talk a little bit more about your fund to funds idea. We're basically gonna be putting together a group of proposals. And one of the things that keeps on coming up is this idea of making a lot of smaller bets. We've also got a proposal that I thought was very interesting of following in the lines of what Israel did with the Yozmah of having a fund of funds, government kind of fund of fund sort of program, then offering to buy back LP stakes. To encourage other people to kind of join in, as well as provide some early liquidity options. For early investors, founders and that to kind of kick start the fund  
Them: Ajá.  
Me: program. But I wanted to kinda double click on your you know, towards the end of our last conversation, you were like, hey. If I could have a fund of funds in Central America, fund of funds, you know, in a fund of funds here. Then get the pension funds involved. That was actually pretty interesting, but I wanted to kinda double click on that and flesh out your thoughts a little bit more.  
Them: Perfect. So first, we need to talk about the markets and and and and in Latin America, we have highly institutional markets. That means that pension and insurance companies are the big actors.  
Me: The Big Patterns.  
Them: And so and they have  
Me: As for  
Them: the dry powder. That's the first thing. The second thing is culturally, because of history, culture, or institutions, pension funds will go to public markets. They tend not to go to private markets to buy. They don't like private equity. And it has to do with our culture, our history, and risk. It's not the risk, but it's moral risk or reputational risk. Okay? So So to be able to funnel that money to venture capital you need to have public regulated markets. Because otherwise, it's gonna be a pain. It's gonna be a mess. Pension funds will not like it. And it's culturally something different. Again, we don't like when people steal or scam and that happens a lot. And and then with pension fund money, that should never be an option. So so and then we don't have the prudent man rule that happens in the 17 United States. That the prudent man rule was when they allowed the pension funds to invent in venture capital in The United States in the seventies. So  
Me: Yep.  
Them: and you can invest, like, what would be prudent. Like, let's say 1%, and they stick with 1%. So but we have the channel to do the prudent man rule. Because a prudent man rule wouldn't invest pension fund money in private that you cannot control or regulate. So the first thing is you create these platforms for private for smaller investments with investment in this medium sized firms. So it's Scalix or different you call it however you wanna call them, but it's junior stocks.  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: Chains. That's the first thing. Second thing is once you have them, and you do have them in a few countries, and then you  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: the idea, You create a fund of funds. And let's say we're gonna create a fund of funds and and you have one in Central America, Caribbean, South America.  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: You create one in South America and you say, hey. We are gonna invest in startups They will tend to be regional startups, not global startups, and that's okay. Through this public market that has some level of regulation, and we wanna funnel in the medium term pension fundment. Because that's where the real money is. There's no real money in the private sector. And the other thing is and and I need to be very clear about this.  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: Getting money from the private sector in most of our countries, you need to be a very well connected person. You need to be born in the right family, go went to the right correct high school and the correct college. Okay? So it's a very small proportion of the population. The ones that currently are able to get that. Okay? So when you create a public market, you open the field. People from all backgrounds, startups from all backgrounds, all interests, females, by the way. Because when you see who gets the money in the private market, 95% man. Okay? And so you open this And and and 95 until this 95% meant from 10 high schools and from three municipalities. It's, like, terrible. And so you open the field. And so when you create this private this public junior stock exchange, In Scalex, we have people from all cities in Chile. We have the first female founded company to open to the stock exchange in Chile. So of the five companies, two were founded by women. And so you open the market. And and it has a lot of good things in that sense. So then you make this fund of funds says, you know what? We're gonna lead it. We're gonna lead the fund of funds. You know, by the way, some people at CAF like scale it's a lot, so it's not gonna be hard to sell this idea inside. You you you create this fund of funds and you start putting the first 15,000,000, 20,000,000 and you lend more money, by the way. So you can also lend money.  
Me: Double double click on that. How would How would you have a fund of funds and then lend money at the same time? Would you do, like, a Corfo sort of program, like the aparentamiento? Or  
Them: Yeah. But you are the same lender. What happens is on on the inside of when you put equity, it takes capital out of the bank. But when you lend money, it's just, like, one ten. Because you're lending money. So you can put a lot of money, and the bank will is not gonna feel it. Okay? And so you can put 20,000,000 in equity and 50,000,000 in there, and they wouldn't feel it. So then you go and bring in other actors. And you're gonna start with bid, and then you just need to go to to and And you go to the regional, to the national development banks. And find a way in which they can put money into. And you say this is a regional project to develop this segment of companies and and push towards. And if we bundle together, we're gonna be able to do it. And and so you ask them money, And if that works, that's great. You get money from the bid maybe you could go to the IFC of the World Bank. And you can have a big fund. And then you put money in funds that will invest in this. After two years, will have a few exits. You will have a track and then you go to the pension funds. And then it's not your money.  
Me: So you would start off by primarily getting a consortium of governments together and development banks and just have them as the primary LPs and kind of a regional fund of funds.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: And then after you have, like, generation two or fund number two, would essentially you could then get the pension funds on board and twist their arms a little bit.  
Them: Yeah. So  
Me: Would you would you  
Them: So you can go immediately to the pension funds, but you need to so when you had the pension funds in Toronto, the the sorry. The funds in Toronto. They did a lot of our implicit in to get the pension funds in. And so they did it in the first batch. However, they told me it was a lot of arm twisting. But they made a lot of money, by the way. Because you can say our new is new, but the asset managers below are not. They have a good track record. And so you you can try to make the argument and maybe you're gonna get some money. But the truth is second generation, it's gonna be easier. It's just gonna happen. Less arm twisting. And so and then you go to the pension funds in Colombia that have I don't know, $400,000,000,000. The pension funds in then we'll have only 50 and the pension funds in Chile will have 250,000,000,000 They're gonna put some money in. And so you go and do that, It works. And then let's replicate this in Central America. That's replicate this in The Caribbean, and it's gonna work. So companies do well. And and and at the end of the day, you are gonna be choosing the best I don't know, a 100 companies from the subcontinent. You are gonna do well. And so this is business. And and once you may start making money, you have a few exits, everybody's gonna say, you know what? Let's join in. Half, it's gonna have to charge a little bit for the management fees. But half doesn't have charged so much. And so and that's very good. And so you can start with a 100 or a $200,000,000 fund. Just go with it.  
Me: Would you one of the questions that Cass had was was would you do that internally to CAF, or would you hire an external kind of management company? To actually do that? And it seems like they're interested in hiring external management companies like Fondo de Fondos or or Spectra in Brazil or something like that.  
Them: There are many  
Me: What are your thoughts on that?  
Them: there are many fund of funds that you could hire to do this. I you know, you would need to analyze  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: the pros and cons and think about it a little bit more. So As long as the incentives are very well lined, I would go with the private guys.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: But incentives need to be very well correct. If not, it could not work. Okay? The you know what? The other thing is I believe Cath could be subject to political pressures at some point. So maybe you also want it to be private.  
Me: Makes sense?  
Them: It could don't know. But equilibriums, you need to put all the equilibriums in paper and hey. You cannot go 50% just to one country and stuff like that.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: That sort of things. So they maintain this kind of equilibrium. And you have a lot of very good asset managers, though. Over the world in LatAm, so they they could do it well.  
Me: If you were design if you were to design, like, a corphotype apalancamiento leverage sort of facility, What would you take what would you do the same from the core for leverage program and what would you do differently?  
Them: Good. Amount You know, So once you have equity, I think the leverage system works. What because if you're putting the equity, you put the leverage. You have so we have twenty years of learning this. So the mistakes are almost non regarding that instrument. You actually have a price, and if the fund does well, you charge a little bit more. You have oversight over the investments. I don't know. Once you have the equity, I think that works. By the way.  
Me: So you're, like, zero to 10, you're very happy with the leverage  
Them: So  
Me: program in in Chile with Corfo, and you think it was really well run?  
Them: is not so that program is well run and works. The only thing is for half of the cases, need equity instead of leverage.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: That's the main thing. And the other thing is we need to be very  
Me: Yep.  
Them: clear regarding where the companies are from and where they are legally. You have a lot of companies that are gonna be in So they need to be, in a way, operating in  
Me: Yeah. I've I've heard that from a bunch of the fund managers of doing that of, you know, the challenge that they had was some of the companies wanted to set up the Cayman Sandwich, And At The Time Cayman was know, the money laundering center, and they were on a blacklist.  
Them: Exacto.  
Me: And Chida can't do that. And so now it seems like the Cave and Sandwich is okay  
Them: So  
Me: because they got off their the money laundering blacklist.  
Them: The black Yeah. But it's an impediment that we have for money laundering. It's not yeah. But  
Me: No. That yep.  
Them: there's nothing yeah. So  
Me: That makes a total sense.  
Them: so once you have that well set up, so the program is not perfect, but once you wanna lend money, it kind of has most of the details. Well, solved. I'm trying to think of what it would I change it if I already have an equity scheme? And I think I wouldn't run change much. I would actually just I would copy that program, by the way. So and in that sense, when you are investing in a higher stage of the companies, meaning series a's and b's, leverage leveraging with that makes sense. It doesn't make sense when you're in seeding preceded. That should be all equity.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: But but here, it kind of does a little bit of sense.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: And you shouldn't charge a high interest rate. That's kind of obvious. Because you wanna promote the market.  
Me: And was was the leverage program at Corporal, was that primarily created to a, deploy more capital, or was it created to provide better incentives for private capital to get into the market? Or just all of the above?  
Them: All of the above, the main one was to create the market. We didn't have a market. So it was very well designed to new investors, new asset managers. You had some but you're starting the fund for the first time, your own funding. And so it was meant to help them and to create the market. Kind of what's happening now.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: In this web conversation. So yeah, you would go there I forgot something that I well, not I was gonna say, but maybe later, don't remember.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: And and so once you have this fund of funds oh, now now I remember. You know who who you should talk? You should talk with Juan Pablo Snow Gómez, Juan Pablo Córdoba, the CEO of Nuance, That is the three stock exchanges, Chile, Peru, and Colombia. Why? Because a few I would say a few months ago, they offer a fund like, a million dollars just to start the scalex fund. They are willing to put on the game. Okay? And so they are not just talking. They are putting they are willing to put money And so imagine you say, okay. We are gonna do this And, you know, the first one that it's spilling money the the guy that it's creating more, he's gonna, like, bet on it. And he knows this is gonna be good. So they are willing to put a million dollars, then you start and and more people and and it signals.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: Signals confidence, commitment, And so I think  
Me: I think And and his  
Them: having that  
Me: Juan Pablo Córdoba,  
Them: although I'm gonna give you his phone number.  
Me: Perfect.  
Them: And so you can talk with him and tell him, hey. We're doing I'm gonna talk with him too.  
Me: Thank you.  
Them: That you're preparing this for and because having that name, this is not only an idea.  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: Like, we have been doing it We have not been able to do it, like, in Chile, but in Colombia. We're just doing it in Chile. Because I cannot convince bank codecs. I tried. I kind of kind of could do something with Cofide. But if CAF is in the middle and they put the checks, it's gonna work.  
Me: Yeah. Now that makes a ton of sense.  
Them: One more thing. I'm sure we can get money from Corpus through two or three different ways. I can assure you we can do that. And so I'm gonna come back and say, we can technically do that.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: And so  
Me: If the calf decides to move ahead with, like, this regional kind of fund to fund strategy. Is that something that you would be interested in helping structure specifically in terms of, like, getting Corfo involved?  
Them: I would. Love I would be the first on board  
Me: Awesome.  
Them: I that it's my dream job. Because this is change if this could change well done. Change the face of LATAM. Because this is what say the idea of small caps changed the face of Chile. So  
Me: Yep.  
Them: we're gonna do something similar at a huge scale.  
Me: Is  
Them: We're gonna have to charge huge  
Me: does Scalex now work across the Peru and Colombia stock exchanges?  
Them: They are working on it. Right now, you could you could work it out. And so  
Me: Okay.  
Them: this would accelerate it. But but you can open we been talking with Peruvian companies to open them in Chile.  
Me: Ivan just as an aside, I've been working with a couple of UK investment banks to try and set up SPV to write the first check into a company on the condition that we take a board seat in the company then we take the company public over the next eighteen months. In  
Them: Wow.  
Me: London. I would be very interested in because what I'm seeing happen is talked to several 100 tech companies from LatAm, The United States, VCs, about the idea of building bridges to, like, the London AIM. And it's a first mover problem. Like, no one wants to be the first startup. They're interested. They're curious. And it's a chicken and egg problem. Every time I'm working with a start up, you have a chicken and egg problem. Well, you have to steal chickens. So how do we steal the first chickens? Get them across the line?  
Them: Вот здесь  
Me: So like,  
Them: This is the way.  
Me: Zeppelin was one of the companies I've heard about peripherally. I don't know the exact financials of the company. But would would there be would there be  
Them: Don't do that.  
Me: would there be appetite in like, the pension funds or lo que sea en Chile to set up an SPV to go to Cepelin and say, look, we will write 50,000,000, 80,000,000, what have you. We'll take a board seat. But you need to list in London as well as list in Chile. Do a dual listing.  
Them: Dual listing. So okay. Zeppelin is not a great example. But mainly because they are they do invoice discounting. And a lot of noise, but very, very few results.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: So but I think I think you're right. When I was discussing with the pension funds, they wanted a structure actually in Delaware that they could sell. So what you're telling me, Jonathan, is exactly what they wanted. And so their pension from the $32,000,000,000 pension fund told me told me exactly that. Francisco, if you do this, we want to flip in two, four years, ten years, and sell it. So if you have a possible dual listing, it can be very interesting for them. So  
Me: Because  
Them: I I I'm gonna tell you an example. I I've been working with a  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: few mining companies or technological mining companies that provide server technological services, like, optimize things. When you see the numbers, like, return on investment in one year, I'm like, this cannot be true, but they are making a material that is unique to oil.  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: That guy charges have a whatever he wants. And so  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: that's the kind of company that it's gonna raise $23,000,000 here and chances are it's gonna have to go to London or Canada.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: Because the guys here sadly, don't really know the business, have are not used to this type of companies. However, in London and Canada, they love them.  
Me: Mining  
Them: So  
Me: Mining and natural resources companies, those have been like, that in Australia are some of the largest homes for, like, those mining companies. And there's a lot of track record, at least in London, of working with mining companies in that town.  
Them: Yeah. Exactly. So they have the know  
Me: And so  
Them: how. Like, Alto Pogasta Minerals is in London. It's not into you. And so most of our mining companies are open to the stock exchange abroad, not in Chile. Because the know how of how to invest in this company is is abroad. And so and and I'm maybe trying to create that muscle here. It's not gonna work. Maybe only for initial stages, and then we flip them abroad. Where you have appetite for them.  
Me: In  
Them: And so  
Me: long term, one of my concerns as well is I'm gonna be working on this exit liquidity thing for the next twenty years. So this is, like,  
Them: What do you do?  
Me: mi legado. This is mi patrimonio. This is I'm in.  
Them: I mean, that looks good.  
Me: And so, I think that the London Exchange, possibly Australia, maybe Canada, can be very good stepping stones to, like, US market where all the entrepreneurs, where all the boards wanna be, but you just have to  
Them: Yeah. Well, to to  
Me: get there. There's  
Them: to tilly  
Me: there's a huge gap in the market right now because VC is pretty much growth VC is pretty much only getting invested and poured into AI companies.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: So there's a lot of, like, fintechs. There's a lot of, like, orphan unicorns that are kind of happening right now. They need cap They're still growing. They're profitable. And so  
Them: No. Imagine,  
Me: think that there's a moment to be able to do that but I think getting them to those exchanges is good. I think that the new oil the new old gold of Latino America is tech stocks.  
Them: tech stocks.  
Me: I wanna take that gold to Europe again.  
Them: That's that's a good one. Text docs. Yeah. You you have them, and you have you have a lot of them. So  
Me: And so I'm wondering, like, how do we keep cómo mantenemos ese oro, o el beneficio de ese oro en Latinoamérica y no solo llevarlo para los gringos en Europa otra vez?  
Them: So, well, we can do both.  
Me: Ya,  
Them: And and at the same time, if we get half of the profits, when pension funds sell them, that's great. Right now, we're getting zero.  
Me: Yeah. And so  
Them: And we are the jobs. Yeah.  
Me: I was talking to Grupo Éxito in Colombia, and they're like, well, you know, we launched drop  
Them: Mhmm.  
Me: We had all of the you know, we were their almacén. They our stuff from our you know, they wouldn't have without us. I was like, oh, great. Did you guys invest? Or, no. Okay. You thought about a corporate venture capital program?  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: But are you on the private side now, Francis?  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: Or are you still in the public markets or  
Them: Yeah. I'm in the private side. I well, I was in the private side. I was asked to go to Corporal for two months to help them through the government. Changes. And now I'm in the private site fully. I'm helping companies raise debt That's okay. I have this unique know how. Raising capital is super hard.  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: Okay? But raising debt and and and I have raised capital for companies. It's super hard. And it's just a thing. Raising debt I'm super good at. And I was the guy lending at Corfo. Was the guy lending at Banco Estado. And I raised billions. So  
Me: Yeah. Another thing that we're  
Them: I cannot  
Me: another set of conversations that I wanna have is people with venture debt. So we talked to Silicon Valley Bank, I was able to connect them in IDB, and they ended up spinning up Partners for Growth. Which was kind of a  
Them: Yeah. I yeah.  
Me: the the venture debt program.  
Them: I know. It's  
Me: I think venture debt would do very well in Latinoamérica, especially with some of the fintechs that are happening. But I don't know. It's not a well understood product. And so Silicon Valley Bank is willing to kind of provide some some education along that or some kind of guidance around that. But  
Them: So you know, I'm gonna connect you with someone at Banco Estado because Banco Estado has, hay hay created this guarantee called escala por inversión for startups. So it's venture debt. So Qualfa puts the guarantee, and Banco Estado lends the money. And so they have a new a person in charge of that, and a guy, very smart Italian guy, wants to open a fund using the that guarantee. And he's thinking. He's thinking stuff. And so because you can do this with a fund. You don't need the bank. And so he's do it on an asset manager, and that's pretty sweet. And so people are thinking about this, and things are moving.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: And I think, by the way, I I think I'm sure Banco Estado has put already more money on venture debt than partners I can bet you that one. And so because Banco Estate is kind of quiet,  
Me: Mhmm.  
Them: and they don't travel around the world,  
Me: Yep.  
Them: They put money in.  
Me: Interesting.  
Them: And so and so I can there are three people then. I'm gonna give you the numbers now because maybe I'm gonna forget.  
Me: Go for it. Y San Juan Pablo Córdoba... Go, Enrique, sorry.  
Them: Francisco, yeah. No. That's okay, Jonathan. I wanted to ask you. Behalf of who are you helping raising debts? Who are you helping raising debts? Right now, I work for private companies. But but just that's that's just, okay. Private companies that are looking for that in any commercial banks or may be MDBs, maybe CAF or Maybe CAF. Yes.  
Me: I  
Them: Maybe calf. Also. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I haven't so I have been trying to talk with Julian Suárez is in charge of the Chile here. Mhmm. So, okay. The person in charge of debt in in Chile I don't know if he was fired or whatever. But now they have a person in charge. Of For the private sector, you mean? For the private sector in CAF. So it's kind of hard to I talk with Julian every week, he tells me, Francisco, I am with the president. I am with the president of CAF. Now I'm in Argentina. And cannot really talk with him right now. So You you know there's somebody there that's have you met with Maximiliano Alonso? No. I know Maximiliano Alonso. Because yeah, Maxi so Maximiliano Alonso, he was the former director director for Argentina, on the chair in Cabell, Banco Centroamericano de Interación Económica, and then he started working for CAF for Central America, then he expanded for Mexico and Central America. But then the the the latest position that he has he's based in Uruguay, Mhmm. And and I'm betting that he has some sort of regional position So let me just look for him right now. Because because when he when he started working for I I mean, I met him while I was working at the MDB Cabay. And when he started working with CAF, and I was with PCA for the organization, the PFA absorbed, I I, you know, I address them because that's what I needed to do, what you're doing. I I I needed to help development projects or investment projects for private for the private sector to raise debt. So I I I, you know, he he was really helpful, actually. By introducing me to the country representative here in Honduras and all that. But just let let me just double check what is his position while being based in Uruguay. Hold on a second, please. So he's yeah. So so he's a senior adviser for the cooperative corporate vice presidency of strategic programming. He used to be the senior adviser for Mexico and Central America. So as I said, he's based in Oulu. I I could give him, you know, if if you want me, I can give you his contact and or or write to him and introduce you. If you would like. That would be great. Thank you very much. Yeah. Okay. Thank you very much. So and and some of these companies are well, they are interesting companies that I'm helping them. That's what I'm doing. Why? Because Yeah. Yeah. I completely understand that part because that's I used to do that on behalf of PCA. You know, I I took three companies. So we were used to work only with the End Triangle Of Central America, which was Mhmm. Which is Guatemala, El Salvador, And Honduras. And I I and and our assignment was basically to to travel with the owners or the major shareholders of companies that had investment projects on on the pipeline, especially if there were projects over $40,000,000, and we took them to investor forum in Washington DC and met with Nice. IDB Invest, met with IFC, and we took them to this investor's forum, also with by the way. And and because we, you know, we presented them to the we introduced them to to these MDVs even with the DFCC with the Development Finance Corporation for them to get to know the institutions and get to know the financial products they have so they can they can apply to get that. That So I'm sending you his contact right there, and Thank you. You should you should feel free to write to him and mention me. I can give you his phone number as well. And and Thank you very much. Yeah. Sure. Of course. I'm gonna connect with him. And I'll send yes. I'll I'll send him as so it's I I even know his it's at CAF, they have very easy emails M Alonso arroba Caf no mistaken, They have these emails. Yeah. It's true. So Mhmm. Yeah. So this is his email. So you can reconwrite I'm I'm sending it to the message in the conversation right now. Thank you very much. No. I wrote it. Yeah. Okay. Great. So coming back to the thing So I I gave Jonathan the phone number for Juan Pablo Córdoba,  
Me: Yep.  
Them: the CEO of Nuan, I give you the gave you the number from Luca He is from the AGF He wants to make the fund the venture debt fund. And I gave you the phone number from Anna Bosik She is the person in charge of the start up program at Banco Estado. She's the one lending money. So this is kind of interesting because I'm sure the CEO and Luca will answer Anna is gonna take a while because she's overwhelmed with the work, and this is kind of she's the person that has a serial messages per year per day.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: But but it's, like, has the lower position of the three, but she's always overwhelmed. But  
Me: Okay.  
Them: we need to have conversations with these you need to have conversations with these actors. Right now, I'm working a lot with the people from Luang to to create a a border scale eggs, and then we are gonna go to change a few things of the pension funds regulation, of the superintendency. And so I'm still doing this. Although I have to do raise debt. To pay for my money, But, yeah, I know. It's but this is kind of as Jonathan said, this is kind of what I do. I kind of like it. So it's fun.  
Me: Financially engineering economies.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: It's it's pretty fun.  
Them: It's fun. Yeah. And so I'm very happy to guys, I'm very happy to help you again on talking, and I love this project. This is what we should be doing. It actually wrote think I wrote a paper. I mean, I if I found the paper that I wrote, I'm gonna send it to you. Okay, guys?  
Me: So I'm gonna we're gonna take this conversation. We'll kind of digest it. I will send you back kind of the Francisco Menaces idea of a regional fund of funds with, like, the Corfo Apalancamiento. I would love for you to give me feedback. Does this represent your thoughts? And then at that point, you know, at that point, I'd love to you know, mix that into our suggestions to cough there. Very interested in kind of doing something different. They have really been kinda doing haphazard stuff towards venture capital. And they also need stuff that they can actually sell to the board.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: And so I think they've also been wondered, like, how do we get our money back out? And how do we get the liquidity issue. And so that's part of the conversation. But I think the debt piece is really interesting, and I think they would understand that  
Them: That.  
Me: a lot more, especially because Corfo's already been doing it.  
Them: Yeah. So  
Me: Yeah.  
Them: and it's a bigger fund. It's gonna be amazing.  
Me: Yep. And so this is insanely helpful, Francis. So I will send you back that summary of what I'm understanding your ideas to be, and then, give me maybe a couple of weeks, and I'll come back to you and ping to you about the the pre IPO SPV. And if there's people and in Colombia or, excuse me, people in the pension system in Chile that are interested in buying that kind of product. Happy to, you know, make you a COGP or something like that or whatever You know, if you're interested in exploring that sort of stuff, I'm interested in doing this.  
Them: Let's so what we can do is we can have conversation with a junior person at one of the pension funds. And then if that is something we go up.  
Me: Look. I I I know that I don't know the pension ecosystem and Latinoamérica, and I you know, I'm very interested. My ethical concerns are no me quiero llevar el otro el oro otra vez. I want some of the gold to stay here, in Latino America, I want them to be able to profit off of  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: the next generation. And, ultimately, I think that will move GDP.  
Them: Yeah.  
Me: If we can actually start  
Them: Doing that. I think  
Me: tweaking those knobs and getting the pension systems invested in this ecosystem in LatAm. Eventually, that moves GDP, it becomes  
Them: I think, Jonathan, this is a great idea because  
Me: sustaining.  
Them: once it works with one company, it's gonna flow.  
Me: Yep.  
Them: And, again, we I'll the mining sector, maybe salmon industry, maybe that you have, like, a few verticals that obviously the know how on on how to invest and the appetite is in London. It's not into it. Not Alana. So you can do it there.  
Me: If there are mining companies that are doing or mining tech companies that are doing $20.30 ish million dollars a year in revenue that interested in raising growth capital, I would be interested in talking with them. Or who should I talk to in the mining sector in Chile that would who know those  
Them: So, okay, I'm gonna  
Me: companies?  
Them: So, okay, I'm gonna give you a number. I'm I'm I'm at I I had a rough time with this person, but for something completely different, unrelated. But it's Víctor Aguilera.  
Me: Víctor Aguilera. Sí.  
Them: And he manages one of the most successful venture capital funds on mining industry.  
Me: Oh, okay.  
Them: Most I think all of his companies are extremely successful.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: I think some of them are in that  
Me: Okay.  
Them: band that you mentioned me. He's also raised $80,000,000 I think a $180,000,000 for a second  
Me: Okay.  
Them: mining tech  
Me: Okay.  
Them: fund. So that's the guy. He knows all the companies.  
Me: Excellent. Francisco, tu tiempo es Thank you so much for your wisdom, your insights, and they will be in touch, and I'll respond with your this is Francisco's brainchild, and thoughts, and we'll continue the conversation.  
Them: Perfect. Well, have a very good day, guys.  
Me: Igual.  
Them: Take care. Thank you so much. Muchas gracias. Welcome. Bye bye.  
Me: Chao, chao.  
Them: Gracias, Rigo.  
Me: Hey, Laura?