Meeting Title: Silicon Valley Bank venture capital strategies for Latin America
Date: Mar 16


Transcript:
 
Them: Doing well. Let me let me just kinda quick give you a bit of more of a color on the study that we're doing. Yeah. That'd be great. Introduce you to the team. So Mark and Rigo were part of a private partnership under that report of Kamala Harris called partnership for the for partnership for Central America. And their mandates was to generate more business across Central America to decrease through causes of And in two or three years, they were able to get, like, 5 or $6,000,000,000 worth of new business commitments to Central America. So Perfect. Lot of profound network that they were able to develop. This is a partnership for Central America two point o, and that is called partnership for the Americas. And one of our first for our trick, we are doing a study for calf. Twenty years in foreign policy, Latin America development. You USAID, congress, last job in government was representing the Obama administration in the Inter American Development Bank on the board. Then did six years of startups in New York I'm back with a day job at the IDB. But also doing this, side hustle that takes most of my time, frankly. Side hustles tend to do. But but really grateful for Jonathan's leadership and and building this out. Thank you. Nice to meet you. Rigor Nat? So nice to meet you. My name is Gilberto Romero, based in Honduras. So so I've worked within the development world, and I've also worked with a multi a multilateral development bank. It's called, Cabay here in Central America. I've, managed the fund that, allocated over $40,000,000 for cooperation development projects. And feas feasibility studies for different projects So the multilateral development bank could fund the projects that we that we located. Also, structure a fund that we wanted to implement in Asia for different institutional investors, and happy to be here. Nice to meet you. Likewise, Rico. Thanks, Rico. Nati. Likewise.  
Me: Hi, Andy. Nice to meet you. I'm Nat. I'm based in Córdoba, Argentina, and work with John Jonathan as the COO of HF Capital along with different projects, and one of this is Partnership for America's research. And in my previous life, I used to work as a platform manager in a venture capital firm.  
Them: So, Andy, who are you, sir? And what radicalized you to start working international with Silicon Valley Bank? Thanks. John. Hopefully, my, my dog it will be quiet for the next couple minutes, but, as Jonathan indicated, I've been doing a lot of international work for SUV. I'm hitting I'm just about up to twenty nine years at the bank, which is hard to believe. In a couple weeks. And the last twenty or so working on the bank's international expansion in one form or the or the other. But for about the last fifteen years, have been running a business we call Global Gateway, and that business has spent time in Latin America specifically, working with tech start ups, scale ups, and venture capital firms in the region. From our US platform. So it's still one of the regions that focus for us. I would team member, actually, a dedicated team that's based in Miami that services Latin America. We still work with many of the leading startups and scale ups and VCs in in Latin America. To your point, I would I think the majority of them tend to sit in you know, Brazil, Mexico, Chile, Colombia. Argentina. And then beyond that, it gets very, very falls off very, very steeply. There's the the critical mass is not quite where it is beyond those countries. And so I I understand that dilemma that you're working on. But just for full transparency, the other regions that we focus on include kind of by size of our business. It's Asia is still the biggest. With, China being a meaningful part. Europe Latin America sorry. Europe, Israel, India, then Latin America, then Middle East, North then Australia, New Zealand. So we have seven regions that we you know, reasonable expertise, connections. We travel to the markets from time to time to, to meet our clients and partners, make sure we understand what's happening. So that's a little bit about me. Andy, why don't you have people chosen Silicon Valley Bank? And, like, what's been your secret sauce become the dominant player in the market? Yeah. And and you know, honestly, with LatAm, we started quite early. You know, if you think of Latin America fifteen years ago for the ecosystem, it was tiny. And there were almost none of the existing players, large players, today, like Kazakh or Monashiz. They were just getting started. And so we kinda hit it at the right time. We started to see you know, it was the same spirit of trying to connect with new ecosystems like we did with China and India a year ago that we, you know, took a trip to Latin America. Our chief exec came along. Spent the week of immersion, and really got excited about what we were seeing. So we started to return on a regular basis. And and we were one of the few banks just in general, guys. I mean, I don't know how familiar you are with SVB in general. But even in The US, we're kind of a rare animal in the sense that we're one of the few banks that focuses pretty much pretty much with exclusivity on the, innovation economy. And so a lot of banks just don't do a very good job of that here in The US. And so transpose that to Latin America, and, you know, it's even fifteen years ago, there was nobody that was willing to talk to a start up or if they did, they would have be able to add no value. And so SUV with our focus, forty years of history, unique bank products that cater to startups and VCs, value add connections, All those things just helped our brand catch fire in LatAm. And, for a time, we were you know, we're by our calculation, and we could only SEV as a US bank and US dollar bank we we can't provide local banking. So what we're doing is very a very targeted service, but very needed for companies that operate in US dollars. And venture capital, as you guys know, mostly functions in dollars. You know, at least in the way that that we would understand it here in in at Silicon Valley Bank. And and so for those companies that were raising money from US investors or US dollar based investors, Everything happens offshore. Investors don't like to invest directly into a you know, a Mexican company, a Brazilian company. They insist on structures that they're very comfortable with. You know? For example, Latin America typically uses a Island sort of jurisdiction for the top co because of both law and taxes. And then they put oftentimes, there's a US Delaware company in the mix, and then the the, Latin American operating company sits beneath that. And so we could bank the the offshore We can't bank the the operating company because we don't provide local banking in whatever pesos or real. Right? And so that's the role we've been and that helps them in the sense that they're raising funding. They need to be able to have those accounts to be able to receive the the VC funding. And then they tend to keep dollars with us because you know, a, it's the currency that they're they raised the funding in, and they don't wanna take risks with that. We obviously give them as much interest as as we can. Then help them onshore that money on a regular basis. And and because these companies have such a strong connection to The US, they're frequently here, and so that's another reason why it works very well for us. We can help them with their US needs, connections here in The US, and and, obviously, you know, some with some expertise in in their local ecosystems as well. So what are the unique loan products that you offer? Andy? So in The US, we offer again, something that very, very few banks do. And that's that's we're one of the pioneers of what's called venture debt. And so what that essentially means is that startups here in The US anyway that raise, you know, traditionally, series a venture capital can also look towards borrowing some money. On top of the equity that they've raised and if you think about it, most startups are by nature, new, and they're losing money because they're trying to grow fast. And so that profile makes it very difficult for traditional banks to consider for credit. But, venture debt kinda looks at it the underwriting kinda turn turns the head on are you raised funding? What does the next year and a half look for this company based on the money it's raised? And because of our pattern recognition over the years and our deep relationships with the investor community here in The US, we have a really good sense of what the risk how the risks will play out. And so we're able to provide, you know, significant financing. And, typically, let's call it 30% of equity raised you can borrow. And, of course, you have to pay that money back. But from a founder view or from an investor view, that money is the the interest that you're paying back is much cheaper than the dilution that you would take from an equity lens. And so it becomes a, you know, a valuable form of financing for the business. That helps the company get to the next financing round essentially. Helping to achieve whatever milestones that it's aiming at. So in Latin America, we were not doing that directly off our balance sheet, but we worked with the IDB Invest to create a venture a venture debt fund, one of the first of the region. And we partnered with IDB along with a firm called Partners for Growth, a firm that we work with here in The US for many years. And the three of us teamed up to create what what what's called the Latin Growth Lending Fund. That's still in operation today. And still providing venture debt for companies in in Latin America. Let's touch base. It you guys also do you guys also offer unique venture products to funds? As well? We do. It's one of our biggest lines of business. Today in in the I think all of you probably aware that the bank was acquired a few years ago by First Citizens. Bank in North Carolina. We operate, you know, kinda independently as a as a division. And so within Silicon Valley Bank Oops. The Did you guys lose his audio? I'm still hearing. Oh, I'm not hearing it. Okay. My Can you hear can you hear me okay? Yeah. Okay. Great. So the so the banking of funds has become maybe even bigger than our banking of the startup ecosystem. And and so is something that we do really well, and one of the things that there are a few forms of debt for funds that are really, really valuable, but the biggest thing that we do is what's called a capital call financing. And so if you think of BC Fund, they need to make an investment need to call capital from their limited partners. And, that usually takes time. And, obviously, once the money is called, the return clock starts to tick. So investors wanna keep that, like, sort of just in time, you will, if possible. And what the what what these kind of capital call lines allow are two things One is you can borrow online in advance of calling the cap So it just allows you to really organize your you can them all together, make one big capital call instead of lock of little ones, which is kind of annoying for your investors. And and, also, if you have something that comes up that needs a lot of speed, right, like a deal that's closing fast and you wanna get in on it, you can borrow on the line. Obviously, you have to pay interest on it. But, again, it's for for a tool of convenience very, very popular with our venture friends. The the bigger firms, the PE firms tend to start thinking of it as IRR enhancement, meaning they can the longer they can postpone calling capital, it begins to mathematically help their fund returns, which is not what really the product is designed for, but any event, some of our clients use it for that. So that's the probably the main line product that we provide. We're very again, it's very US centric today when we had brick and mortar and other parts of the world, we were doing it actively around the world. I think we will get back to that some stage, but right now, it's a fairly US centric product offering. We also offer, you know, GP financing, meaning financing of management companies, sometimes individually at the partner level where new partners need to buy into a firm. We can we can help them finance that at the personal level. So there are a lot of different tools that that we do provide funds. One regular Mark, Rigo, if you guys have any questions, dive in because I know that you guys are bit more banking geeky than I am. But Yes. I would like I would like to to ask something, Andy. It's really interesting And and, you know, with the with the compass and the but also with the accelerate accelerators that we've been talking here in Latin America and Central America. There there's always this situation regarding the the financing needs. Right? And and and, you know, they've also they've also talked to us about the these different loans that they've been able acquire, but they're not loans precisely the designed for the venture capital vehicles and and and taking that into a some are some some, yes, they are, but some of them no. Right? And and and, you know, the financing agencies are trying to participate in this type of, financing schemes Right. But it's kind of, you know, it has other figures. Around. Right? So they're, like they're, like, promoting themselves as you know, we're promoting venture capital, investing, and all that, and we're bringing this financing. That's, you know, designed for your type of project or your type of company, etcetera. But at the end of the day, it's not like that. Right? So getting to know this type of, institutions or this type of banks that that clearly understand what venture capital is and how the ecosystem works. You know? It's something that can really work in in our countries. So I just wanna add to add that that comment over there because it's something that's much very much needed here in our in our countries. Yeah. It it's a really good point because if if you put a if your expectations around lending products are very kinda traditional, I I think you could some of the some of the products could end up backfiring. You know, they're they're they're they just to your point, Rigo, they don't really fit the scenario that you're trying to lend to, and it may actually cause more problems than than you know, than help. Because if you don't understand that startups by nature are gonna be losing money for a while, and then you know, if you have, for example, you know, a lot of banks like ratios, you know, covenants that require a certain level of profitability and that those kind of Start ups just aren't gonna be able to meet. And so if you extend the debt product like that, it's just gonna cause issues with the company. And and if the lender isn't under isn't patient, doesn't understand what they're getting into, it could actually cause it could be severe enough that it could cause the collapse of a company if if you're not careful. Right? So that's just an example how you do need kinda people that know what they're doing that I I think that experience and and, you know, obviously, the bank's we've been at it for quite some time, but there are other know, the other firms that that have been at it for some time as well. So I think it is a good point that as you explore this, that you you know, sort of make sure you're evaluating the experience of the people that you're you're speaking to and and making sure You know? I I I think that's that's good advice. And, Andy, I wanna be respectful of your time because we're at 01:00. Do you start we're at time limit. Do you have a few more minutes, or do you need to go? I I have five more minutes, and I gotta hop. No. One of the questions that I had is are you would you guys there's a couple of ideas that we're thinking of pitching the One of them, the former head of the Central Bank of Chile, we're talking to him again this week, was talking about a set of funds of funds. Another one, McClure suggested kind of a cash recycling early buyout sort of program. Just to kinda help stimulate some of the liquidity that the industry needs. Yes. And are you would you guys be interested helping provide some strategic advice and or would you guys be interested in helping think through some of those structures? I mean, nobody has as much like, hardcore finance data about the startup ecosystem globally than you guys. Well, well, thank you, Jonathan. I obviously, from an informal lens, we'd be happy to Yep. You know, help as we can. You know, if you have something that's a little bit more formal, I would have to look into that and see what level of participation that we could we could actually have. But but, you know, we we tend to you know, be good good ecosystem players so that if the if you guys are working on something that will, you know, promote the ecosystem and continue to help it grow, that that that we we we're we're naturally inclined to know, collaborate with things like that. Also, what's helpful to you guys from a LatAmper perspective? I know since your acquisition, things have been you guys aren't as aggressively or as you're playing in the ecosystem per of Lat America, but I don't know if you guys are actively banking Latin America, I'm not mistaken. What's up to you guys? Yeah. We we still are, Jonathan. We the you know, fast forward to where we are today versus years ago, there's there is a lot more choice for American startups and and and investors. But we still think, you know, quite a number of them. And so for us continuing to bank, you know, some of the leading startups and investors is still our mission and to grow that business. The region, if you looked at the latest Slopka numbers, it's shrunk just a tiny bit last last year. And so, you know, our experience has been that the growth in Lat has been, you know, modest the last couple years. You know, again, I have a dedicated team. We're trying to we continue to try to to build it and win back market share that when we had our issues and got acquired, you know, that you know, it takes some time to rebuild some of the the trust of those relationships. But we're seeing good success there. And I think for your purposes, we're we probably don't bank too many startups in the smaller Central American countries, However, we do bank some of the investors, and we they tend to be linked a little bit with family offices oftentimes, and these are micro VC firms that are kinda less than $50,000,000. Oftentimes, they're like $2,030,000,000 dollar BC funds. And we and we've you know, we generally are happy to take those kind of relationships on because, a, we're good at it, and, b, they can sometimes lead to, hey. I've got a great portfolio company that we just funded. Would you like to speak to them? So they tend to be good you know, referrers of, of business opportunities for us. So that you know, I I guess that's something just for you to be aware of that that we do have clients in that in in the investor community and Central America. But, yeah, beyond that, Jonathan, it's just you know, sort of letting people know we're we're alive and well and and open for business. Yep. Are there different lending schemes or scenarios that we could recommend to Cath they actually partner with you guys on? Like, venture debt, are you guys still interested in that in the space? My guess, they're very interested in kind of making some it sounds from the outside, some some significant changes to kinda how they actually work. Yeah. So I think that would be receptive to new ideas. Partnering on something like that be of interest to you guys? I mean, no no harm in having some conversations about it. We did it with IDB. I could share some of the experiences that we've had there next next time if we have a follow-up call. Yep. You know, it it just seems culturally, there's some issues in terms of the comfort with debt financing. Yep. In in the region, and so it hasn't, like, taken off the way we thought it would. And the other complexity is that oftentimes these startups work across several countries. And so when you're trying to do a a loan that might be let's say, less than $5,000,000, which would be big for Latin America, you have to cover, like, multiple countries, and the cost of putting together you think of the loan documentation, etcetera, becomes pretty expensive relative to the amount of debt financing. And so we haven't been able to crack the code on that, but just something to consider as you go. And I'm happy to have a follow-up you know, to to share more experiences. But but I've I've I've got to run. No. Absolutely, Amy. Appreciate it. Nice to meet you. It's really nice to meet you guys. So much. You bet. Okay. Take care. So, Rigo, I also think well, I never  
Me: Okay. Tenemos reunión después.  
Them: But, no, sí. Vamos a hablar con ellos. Pero creo que Andy, va a poder hablar mucho the banking infrastructure, the regulatory infrastructure for banking, across the region, and how can we actually help simplify that. I think that could be really huge.  
Me: Okay.  
Them: So I'll I'll weigh in, and we can talk about it this afternoon. But thank you, Nate.  
Me: Thank you. Bye bye.