Meeting Title: Mark, Geoffrey, Nat, Jonathan, Rigo
Date: Mar 5
Meeting participants: Mark, Rigoberto Romero, Bruno Kuntz, Geoffrey Kirkman, Natasha Ibarra


Transcript:
 
Them: Hello, Jensen. Hello.  
Me: Bruno. ¿Cómo estáis?, ¿todo bien?  
Them: Hello, Hello. I'm good. Is is this gonna be in English, in Portuguese, or  
Me: It'll be in English. Mi mi portugués está mal, mi  
Them: okay.  
Me: está más o menos. And that's the extent of it. Sorry to slaughter the language. So we're waiting for one or two more people on the team, but while we're waiting, Rigo and Matt, do you guys wanna introduce yourselves?  
Them: Bueno, como quieran. Hola, Bruno, un gusto. Yo estoy basada en Córdoba, en Argentina,  
Me: Do you speak Spanish, Bruno?  
Them: y Ah, sorry. I kinda understand it, but I see. That would be explained better. Right. I'm looking in Córdoba, Argentina. I'm the CEO of HF Capital working with Jonathan since I don't know, and a half year before. And in the past, I was a platform manager in a BC, Kali Ventures. And No, I'm happy to be here. Nice to meet you, Napaja. È un piacere conoscerlo Bruno, Muito muito obrigado pela reunião. Excelente português pouquinho, mas, em espanhol é o penso que será melhor. Español, ¿verdad?  
Me: English.  
Them: Sí, sí, English, it's better in English. Ok. Better in English. Well well, nice to meet you, Bruno. My name is Rigoberto Romero. I'm I'm and I work for for PFA. I'm based in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and I've I've joined the team working in the everything that has to do, you know, with the assessments with the assessment of venture capital ecosystem in Latin America, especially for countries here in Central America and the in The Caribbean. And my past experience has to do with managing a a fund that was destined to invest in corporations, in technical corporations. That derived into feasibility or pre feasible pre feasibility studies and also pilot projects to be developed within these countries in Central America and The Caribbean And, yeah. And and I'll I've also worked for the government on the on the public sector on the public credit sector side in terms of know, allocating different financial instruments in the capital markets. And so I'm here, and nice to meet you.  
Me: Bruno, my son  
Them: Nice to meet you, Rigoberto.  
Me: And, Bruno, myself, I'm Jonathan Nelson. And I'm the CEO of Echef Capital. And we are building an AI first bank, merchant bank, focusing on driving liquidity. Latin America is where I was raised. And so one of the things that we're actually looking at is working with the London Stock Exchange to help actually Latin American companies list in The UK. And we're working on maybe putting together a syndicate of UK investors to invest in LATAM companies and then actually walk them through the public IPO process. So who are we? The partnership for The Americas. That's my day job. PFA is kind of part of my public policy sort of work. And I'll hand you over to Mark, who's the OG on the Partnership for the Americas, and he can tell you a little bit more about the study. And what we're trying to do with partnership for the Americas as well. And then, we'd love to hear about the study that you just did and learn more about Maya Capital.  
Them: Perfect. Thanks, Jonathan. Great great to meet you, Bruno. Thanks for for your time. So twenty years in government roles in Latin America, in development and policy and six years of startups in New York and now back. I I have a day job at the Inter American Development Bank. A side hustle with the calf, and and we're launching this sort of partnership with The Americas, which is basically a nonprofit platform to bring investment and big stuff into into the region. And that's sort of admittedly vague for different reasons, but we can get into the details. But one of the specific projects we're doing is an ecosystem analysis for the CAF. You know the CAF. Right? The the the bank If you don't mind giving me a little more thorough So that would be great. Yeah. The the calf is it's a it's a sovereign development bank. So countries put in money. I think there's 30 member countries, mostly from Latin America. Have a big portfolio in Brazil. They move about 15,000,000,000 a year, mostly government loans, so half $1,000,000,000 for a road or etcetera, etcetera. But they now they have a private sector lending arm which is about 50,000,000 We're also doing a historical analysis of the sort of performance of that fund. And they're launching an impact fund with, 30,000,000 of their own capital to then try to get like 200,000,000 to then do like, you know, equity investments and and and debt, some debt into into startups across Latin America. So that's the cap that's about, you know, like, $1,718,000,000,000. The IDV is about 19,000,000,000. It's a long, know, sixty years, 48 member countries. They also have the IDB Lab, which says small investments, and then the IDB Invest which says larger private sector investments. So, you know, we're we're all ingrained in this ecosystem. And essentially, the nonprofit platform is, like, we know all these people. We work with them very closely. We wanna be the first call when someone says, I'm a Colombian. I live in Medellin. I'm trying to do some investments here, I want to do a language study between philanthropy, private sector, company, investors, etcetera. We wanna be the glue for that. So that's our kind of broader vision, but the specific call here is to really you know, get get your sense of the the ecosystem landscape I think there's a kind of a reset button that that makes sense hit now in terms of, like, okay. We spent ten, fifteen years, like, talking about impact and the glorious entrepreneur and like chasing these like you know, caudling and beautiful entrepreneur. And were like, ah, man, that didn't make any money. Half of them are like now working and you know, day jobs or whatever. So then there's the, you know, private sector side and trying to like understand, like, do we do we now have a new concept of of impact investing or have we thrown it out and really focused on, you know, for profit commercial invest with, you know, with some morals and maybe some impact like considerations, but really profit first and impact second. So we have no religion on this. We're trying to build out you know, an an analytical structure to help advise the calf. Essentially, the calf wants to build an impact fund. That, how they define that is someone else's problem called capital. We're working with them. But what they do know is they don't want all the money just to go to Mexico and Brazil. They don't want like all the sort of private capital markets. Yet there's very pragmatic market forces sending the money to Mexico Brazil because those domestic markets are just way bigger. And if you're an investor, you want size and scale potential. So unless if you're only gonna sell in El Salvador, a lot of investors are like, have no interest. I don't care how good you are as an entrepreneur. I don't care how great your idea is. If you're only selling El Salvador, I'm out. It has to be a a region wide or a global company, whether it's tech or whatever. So we're trying to reconcile a lot of that and provide some concrete reasonable guidance to the calf for for them to consider. And so we're talking to people like you who are sort of deep in this space and understand it. I'll just do a quick intro to Jeffrey. He's driving, but he's a a cofounder in this and is based out of the Boston area. And, spent a lot of time with a lot of the, private families across the region. Started his career at the World Bank in in Mexico, and has done a lot of work in academia as well. Though wants to get his get his hands more dirty into into this operational work. So we'll stop there. Sorry for talking so much. That's a great introduction, Mark.  
Me: And and, Bruno, I'd love to learn about you. What radicalized you to get into venture capital? And then what really impressed me was the study that you just did about the growth of the VC ecosystem. In Brazil. And that's one of the things that we've been tasked with through CAF. Is can CAF help create a similar ecosystem?  
Them: Mhmm.  
Me: In the small countries of the region? And what needs to happen to kind of trigger that? So I think they're probably at maybe four or five venture funds in the small countries.  
Them: Ok,  
Me: So I'll I'll hand it off to you. Who are you? Tell us about Maya Capital and  
Them: Very small.  
Me: what radicalize you.  
Them: Perfect. Well, I've been working with startups for the past seven years or so. Previously, I worked in banking, consulting, and since, since I, I first got in touch with a start up, a near to start up, fell in love. And that was, I I I felt it was my my calling. So I've been head of finance and CFOs for a a a a a a a few startups in in the past. And recently, I joined my as a former operator to help in some some aspects of the fund. Fund modeling, portfolio support, and I'm seeing some investments as well. My capital is a is a fund that is is a an an asset management that is raising its third fund now. We usually invest in very early ventures, very early entrepreneurs. We like to be the first institutional check that the entrepreneurs, raise. And we mostly invest in Brazil 70% of our investments are in Brazil. But we also look at everything So but most of our deals are in Brazil since we only have boots in the ground here. Our office is in in Sao Paulo. It's located in Sao Paulo. And, all of our team is is here in Sao Paulo as well. So we cover most of of Brazil, deals. And, some some things here and there that that come from from Mexico from less, more Argentina, Colombia. And I think there is yeah. Argentina, Colombia, Mexico, Brazil mostly. So talking a little bit more about the the the venture landscape in Brazil, back in the the first the first company that was, like, a built a really big hit here, was Buscapé. Which is basically a a a Google for for marketplaces. So, it it would compare lots of products and if you had, like, a and would, search for the the lowest price. That was in the beginning of the the the 2 thousands, and there were weren't venture firms investing here, but there were some corporate venture arms of established companies such as Itaú and Bank, which is the the biggest traditional bank in Brazil. And some, foreign banks as well such as Lynch and and and these banks. And but the system was really was really immature by the by the by the beginning of the February. And not, not much happened since December. The first, the first the first actual, big venture fund was one of She's Capital, which, was founded by an entrepreneur called Eric He he was, he this this this company I mentioned, and he started he this this venture fund. This was mid mid 2 thousands. So I I I guess the what needs to happen in order to seed a a venture ecosystem is for the first exit to happen because these people usually reinvest the the of their exits backing the economy. So this was, basically, the the the the genesis of of of everything. After that, another fund that, that arised in in the ecosystem was Kazakh Kazakh was founded by the the the founders of of Mercado Livre. And, basically, they are the most respected of funding Brazil. So, until now. And their biggest hit was New Bank. New Bank, they they they participated in this they led the seed round of the bank back when it was a little, little housing in Vila Madalena here in Sao Paulo. And two and two two cofounders and a couple tech people. And now it's it's one of the biggest companies in Latin America as you as you know. So this basically, allowed Kazakh to raise, the the following funds and keep reinvesting money in Brazil. We co invest, usually, with Kazakh and they have, lots of dry powder here. They have their their most current fund is around $1,000,000,000. So they can, not only lead seed rounds, but do do some growth investments as well. And they are in this in this scenario. This, because that was around to to to twenty twenty thousand twelve approximately. And after that, there were a lots of another another venture firms, that followed, its its lead. When, but but I I think the most crucial moment in here was during during the Temer's government that it was around twenty seventeen two thousand seventeen, 2018, that the interest rates were were falling down. So, basically, every lots of lots of money came to Venture Capital, and it was a pretty a pretty funny time to be to be working in startups because it was easy to raise money. So basically, the the market was crowded with with money. It was startups startups were raising, precedence in ground with only PowerPoints and, that that the effect of it was that valuations were higher, the the the the startup ecosystem accelerated a lot. Even though the funds didn't didn't have the the the funds that were of the 2021 vintage, they are still they are still, deploying money. They are or they are starting to disinvest now. So we can't, like, still see the returns of those those funds. But there were, the this this years were crucial because there were lots of unicorns that, raise rounds here, such as Kington Loft. And they speaking of the the the local ecosystem, lots of people started to see startups as a real career opportunity, as a real as a real career. Right? So the employer branding of this of this start ups were at an all time high, and lots of young young professionals, that could go to banks or consulting or whatever. Decided to go to to follow this path. So the talent, it was was flourishing at this time. And then the pandemic hit, the the start basically, the the the the rounds kept happening. Until around 2022 that the raises the the the rates started to raise again. And the ecosystem was a little bit more cautious of invest at higher at high valuations and stuff. And this is started to struggle to raise, new funds. So, basically, the the boom was over just like the the the the the the the in The US. And with a little bit of delay. And, the ecosystem started to mature. Then we we 2025 was actually the hardest year to raise a venture capital fund in Brazil, even though they there are there are some emerging managers. Coming up, but I think the the ecosystem is if you are a start up looking to get funded, if you are a pre seed start up startup, looking to get funded, there are at least 30 firms that you can that you can talk to that will that can lead your round or your preseed rounds, and you don't need to go to to The US or anything. But most of the funds, most of the funding still goes to fintech, which is which holds most of our success cases. Most of the exits come from come from fintech. But I I also see AI and crypto starting to to to blossom here, I would say. So I think I don't know if this this was what you were expecting, but this is basically what I I I see of the the the ecosystem here in Brazil.  
Me: So what would you say were the catalysts that actually led to kind of the boom from, like, the five the five funds to the 800 now? Or they're things that you can kinda pinpoint? You mentioned the IPOs and the exits. Are there other things that you think were catalytic or that caused that change or caused that boom?  
Them: Gas. The first the the first startup that was that had a really large which, which was Buscapé, it was built inside an university lab. We have here in Sao Paulo University of Sao Paulo, which is probably the best university in Brazil. And all the algorithms, it's that were developed inside this lab. So you need to have talent. If you don't have talent, you gonna have to, hire, people from from abroad, or you have you you will you you can't, if you don't have people, engineers, and software developers, and product managers, you can't you can start it. So this was, something that needed to happen in order to for the first company to to really, achieve another level. I I think one one thing that wasn't a a catalyst in this period but was it's that really helps here, startups ray raising funds is that, most of our early funding rounds aren't aren't equity rounds. They are safe rounds. So,  
Me: Can you explain what that is?  
Them: the  
Me: Bruno? Sorry. Can you explain what a safe round is?  
Them: out Perfect. You don't enter the cat table of the startup right away. You sign a contract that is a simple agreement for future equity. That's what's safe stands for, which was which was developed by web like a meter in around ten years ago, or maybe more. And this allows the startup to not, spend lots of money with lawyers right away. So it's a very cheap, cheap way to to invest. Both for the start up and for the for the investor. And the investor doesn't have any liabilities that are if the start up fails or, if the founder go goes and spends all the money and get gets lots of debt and and and, like, doesn't follow doesn't follow through with the start up. The investor the he he or she only lose loses their money. So that's the the worst that can happen. And there's only we we say the safe converts into actual shares only in the priced in a priced round, which happens in a series a or series b usually, series a funding round. Which most of the risk is already is already derisked. So, basically, the acceptance of this instrument, both by the law, and startups and investors was a catalyst to make things move more freely, to to to to erase friction, basically.  
Me: Excellent. Mark?  
Them: Most of the most of the startups in The US, think, now are getting funded initially by Saints. Is that right? Is that also true in in Brazil? Is that that's the prevailing model? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We we hardly see anything different. We see sometimes convertible notes, but usually usually safes are the the way to go.  
Me: When  
Them: And  
Me: When your companies incorporate, do they create a Brazilian Do they create a Cayman entity? What's, like, the standard kind of legal structure?  
Them: The the standard legal structure is usually what we call came in sandwich. It's a Cayman entity that owns a Delaware LLC that will that owns the operating company in Brazil. If you are raising a round that is big enough for you to to pay to to pay for this structure, If you're not raising around, for, the like, you're raising $200,000 or or around that, what usually do is, which is basically a convertible note that is transformed into a safe when you raise more money. So it eventually converts into a safe, but it starts with this So just you can postpone paying paying lawyers, basically.  
Me: So would you see that would you say that that kind of legal structure, that standardization has helped accelerate the pace of investment and innovation?  
Them: Curly. Yeah.  
Me: If  
Them: I'd say so.  
Me: if you had a magic wand what would you do to improve the ecosystem in Brazil?  
Them: What would I do? That's a really good question. They got me thinking. Well, I think, even though we have lots of people going to, STEM. I I still think that talent especially for for senior talent here in Brazil is that we usually we usually have issues hiring when like, we need someone who has scales from 1,001 employees to ten ten thousand. It's hard to find those kind of people because we had very few success cases that have this scale. So I think that and and and we have to to hire from from from from US or from from other countries. So I think senior talent is, is something that, I would change here.  
Me: Excellent. And if they were, like, two recommendations that you would make to a development bank like IBB or CAF to help grow an ecosystem from, like, almost nothing in, like, Paraguay.  
Them: Mhmm.  
Me: Or Ecuador. What would those be for you?  
Them: Perfect. I think it starts with deploying deploying agencies and people to to see if there are like, do some partnerships with with local universities to and start deploying money. Because sometimes just don't have the resources to start anything. So So I think partnering with local universities and funding local universities may be the the the first thing that comes to my mind. And showing that this is real career option for for young talent because that that this isn't this is an actual option. So maybe sponsoring scholarship programs or for working with, for for studying abroad. And most of the this is one one thing I find it funny here. Most of the startup founders in Brazil or the high profile startups founder in Brazil they usually study study in The US. So they are Harvard MBAs or Stanford MBAs or Berkeley MBAs So people usually go and they come back to found a start up. So maybe that's something that, like, a a scholarship program is something that can show, brilliant people the world and what are the the possibilities and and grow ambition in the in the in the country.  
Me: So talent formation in terms of university stem, external talent formation, internal temp formation, and then starting to take the highest risk investments, which in other markets, I think, would probably be handled by angels. But if you don't have Angels, how do you get that first 10 k? How do you get that first 5 k check? Is that is that accurate?  
Them: That  
Me: Bruno, thank  
Them: that that's that's accurate. Yeah.  
Me: Bruno, thank you so much. Mark, do you have any other questions? We have another meeting in in a minute.  
Them: Yeah. No. I'm super grateful, Bruno. Thank you.  
Me: But Bruno, this has been extremely helpful.  
Them: Super helpful. And I love I love to see you get the you got the bug in the passion, and then you sort of committed yourself to it. And I like the point on, you know, trying to convince, you know, younger people. And then I think you know, some some people are still trying to get their banker job that's like, twenty years and like benefits and release and all that and trying to convey that that this is a career path that's not, you know, like, ice I studied music, you know, it's not like going to grab a guitar and trying to be a star. Like, there are ways to, you know, be employed and and be technical and serious and have an income over time even if you have to pin it 20 times. Over twenty years. But, yeah, good to see it. Thank you.  
Me: You play Brazilian jazz, Mark?  
Them: A little bit. Yeah. I lived in Brazil as a kid, and my last name is Lopez, and Yeah. Portuguese background and and all that. But yeah, I mean, Ipanema and George and everybody, like, yeah, Brazilian music's amazing. I love Brazil.  
Me: Bruno, thank you so much. We have a hard stop. But  
Them: Thank you, Benno. Yep.  
Me: we'll be in touch.  
Them: Thank you. I'm glad you helped.  
Me: Thank you so much. Really helpful.  
Them: In touch. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Bye bye. Ah, ya, es Hello.