Meeting Title: Startup Links ecosystem insights and venture capital trends in Latin America
Date: Mar 11


Transcript:
 
Them: También acá. Ok. Hola. ¿Nos oyes? I hear you. Excellent. So we can do Spanglish. So I told you a bit about PFA. I've told you a bit about, kind of what we're doing, so I'll skip that. For the rest of the team, Israel, you've got Cia, runs startuplinks.world. Has a WhatsApp channel with about 300 VCs in it. Is that accurate? Ira? Yep. Almost. Helped publish and distribute the Mexican VC study that Quantico actually released. Jose is actually one of the advisers of Israel, full disclosure. I am too. I'm a blood, sweat, tears investor in StartupLinx. Primarily because of the value of the CEO throughout the ecosystem. And the database that he's at kind of aggregating and the personal network that he's aggregating in terms of this. But, Yvonne, let's do a a kind of a roundtable round robin of introductions quickly, and then we'll kind of dive in. And learn about you, learn about startup link, and learn about your take on the ecosystem. To Mark Lopez on on the the executive director of this nonprofit while doing a a day job at the IDB part time, working with these great, colleagues on this big cap project. I did lots of few startups in New York, lots of government time in BC. Mister Kirkman? Hi, Israel. I I started my career in in insurgent el sur, en el Banco Mundial, a long time ago. And I guess, most recently, I led, fundraising for, Harvard in Mexico, and the rest of Latin America. So got to know the Harvard ex Harvard network quite well, which maybe maybe you know some of them. Nice to meet you. Rigo nati. Nati?  
Me: Thank you. We we already met with Israel. I'm the COO of HF Capital, and we met when we I was busy in Kali Ventures. So nice to see you again, Israel.  
Them: Hola, Israel, mucho gusto. Nice to meet you. I'm gonna be making a introduction in Spanish. Mucho gusto. Felicidades por la presentación del b ecosystem, la situación del VC a la fecha, lo vi en YouTube, y y de paso te cuento que lo compartí con una startup en Honduras que se llama Liza Luz, Lee Salud. Soy hondureño, estoy basado en Tegucigalpa, y estoy trabajando en el engagement de CAF, y mi mi trabajo es mis trabajos anteriores han tenido que ver con desarrollo, con la administración de un fondo cincuenta menos de dólares en el Banco Centroamericano de Integración Económica para las de cooperaciones técnicas, y estamos apoyando en todo esto, con conociendo más del ecosistema. Y mucho gusto, Israel. Nice to meet you. Also is a quick addition. Eindra is helping us organize a couple of roundtables. Instead of having one to one conversations with VCs, we decided to try to get three to four together at a time for a little bit longer meeting, like an hour. And so Ezra has been on point for organizing that with Andrea as well as, Rodrigo. One of the conversations is investing in small countries, and the other one is what makes a good LP. So, Ira, who are you, sir? What radicalized you to get into this business? Nice to meet you, everyone. Thanks, Jonathan, Nat, Well, from my side, I venture capital, like, nine years ago. Before that, decided to try to invest in startups. Through crop funding. Didn't work. It failed. All of them failed, but my CTO was, cofounded one of those companies that failed. So something good happen with that. Great to see you, all of you, basically at startup links. We started six years ago with this mission of helping helping founders. We didn't know what, how, We we didn't know what we wanted to do, but long story short, after a pandemic and a lot of events validations, interviews. Right now, we're working on three six First one is helping founders in the same venture capital. Through events, through tools, resources, video content, podcast, all of that. Most of the content is for free. Second one is connecting startups with investors, accelerators, and corporates. This is all across LATAM except for Brazil because of the language. Everything we do is in Spanish, so it's more probably for us to have a BC in Spain in The US than Brazil because of language. And third one is all the data that actually we just present we just launched our report our journey report where, basically, we talk about the ecosystem. Well, in this case, we talk about exits index confidence for investors, for startups, volume of investment in the region, the in this specific report, we did include Brazil. And we also talked about events and other stuff. So, basically, our long term or midterm show this become the the pagebook crunch base for Right now, we are already building our SaaS, our product, So day to day, we're getting close to that. Yep. We already schedule this call for the next week. Tuesday, with four VCs, all of them from Central America. So gonna be great. It's gonna be amazing. And, actually, Jonathan doesn't notice, but I have maybe a gift for you. Or maybe something that you could use for what you are doing. But I know. So why did you go from helping founders and helping entrepreneurs to kind of more on the venture side. What is the benefit that you see there? Is it just getting them funding? No. At the end of the day, the most valuable info that you can have when working with startups is understanding and knowing or who is building what. What are their the results. Most of the top companies, let's say, Google, Oracle, top VCs, governments, all of them want to know who is performing well, who is doing something amazing. And they wanna connect with those founders. So that's kind of the way. So in other words, in order to to work with those founders, we also need to have the rest of the ecosystem to start working or the earlier stages with the rest of the the founders and the community. Wide events What happens at those events? Yeah. For example, last last week, we have two events. First one was the presentation of this report, which is on an online event. And, basically, there, we have people from all the region. We're first event in 2020 was 200 people who join, joining from the whole region, and that's how we got to be how that's how we got some busy visualization. From countries where we were never being in person. So What what's the reverse pitch? Oh, yeah. Reverse pitch is instead of inviting founders to pitch, we invite VCS accelerators, engine clubs. To be the ones pitching. So actually, maybe that's how I met Nat. Maybe, I guess, we invited to pitch a reverse pitch. We have organized this event, like, 10 times now, more than 150 b c s. Accelerators Angel Clubs have participated. What's the benefit of that, do you think? Growing audience, growing our reputation and network, and gaining visibility with the with the region. Because at the very beginning, nobody knew who was Israel or Starbuilding. So it was a way for us to build trust network, reputation, Yeah. If you are insanely successful, in five or ten years, what does that look like for you in start up links? Basically, we are going to have this crunch based speech book not only for but for another region. Maybe it's The US, maybe it's Africa, Maybe it's Europe. Maybe I don't know. But I I know for sure that the same thing where building with start up links can be done in another region, maybe with the same characteristics. So we're going to have this platform where founders get access to a lot of resources. Once they are approved or recommended by someone. In this case, it could be us an accelerator, a founder, ABC, maybe a lawyer, maybe a government. They access to a very specific well, they can, like, access to the full platform. This may this is they can connect with investor with accelerators, with corporates. And those organizations, when they receive that interest to be connected with this company, they will know and see who recommended this company and why is interesting. So that's the connection side with all of the information that a founder, accelerator, investor, government provides joins the when joins the platform, We have access to a lot of information, that becomes a mapping, a report, a beautiful dashboard with live information. Happening, at the moment. And, eventually, if everything goes according to the plan, we will create our own busy firm because we will have everything will just need the money to invest. Yeah. That's basically the idea. Makes sense. Either what do you think the biggest problems are in venture across Latinoamérica? And specifically in the small countries? In the small countries, I guess that every country, including med Colombia, Argentina had the same problem ten years ago or fifteen years ago, which is people talking and understanding this asset class. And this understanding is way different from a startup a government, a potential LPE, a corporate, or all of them need to understand from their own perspective needs, and objectives, how to work, how to participate, how to be part of the ecosystem. So that happens when you bring someone who already lived that or participated, sold a company, invest run an accelerator. Because the other way to to make that or to achieve that is traveling. Visiting Silicon Valley, visiting Israel, New York, like, and that's complicated if you know that that actually exist. So I guess that at the very beginning of creating or, trying to create an in small countries I guess, or my opinion is that we need to bring other ecosystem or other people to this particular ecosystem. Yeah. I will say that, which is basically information and understanding, like, the whole thing. Interesting. Aside from the education piece, if you had a magic wand, what would you do to change the ecosystem across Latinoamérica? Having more liquidity. I mean, in Mexico, okay, we have a lot of founders. Some governments working on that, accelerators, blah blah blah. Now the challenge is having exits. If we don't have founders selling their positions, if we don't have investors giving money back to LPs, It's not gonna work, at least not the venture capital not not as a venture capital game. It's going to work just as a technology ecosystem, but if you put money and that money doesn't come back, that's something we're with right now. Interesting. So you would actually improve exits, improve liquidity, the ability for founders as well as investors to be able to get turn some of their cash into or stock into cash. Yep. We are not working on that, just to be clear. Because we are, like, at a very earlier stage before that happens. But, yeah, Any other conclusions out of your study? Pretend I didn't read it. Can you give me the too long didn't read version of it? Yep. Investors, have this concern. Exits liquidity. They are very pessimistic about about the the ecosystem. In terms of investment. But founders, on the other hand, are really optimist They are willing to do whatever it takes. Maybe without busy money, but bootstopping with their own resources. That's something like, really different in terms of opinions. When we took a look at the index, that was really, really clear. In terms of volume well, in in terms of exits, we had secondaries, M and As, and we also have one And we have a column where we state how many years it takes from launching the company from to to the exit. And I don't know because we need to calculate it, but I guess average was around fifteen to twenty years for that to happen. So one phone is going to be ten years maybe. And I guess that explains a lot of the the dynamics, and the problems that we have right now. One of these companies was Despegar from Argentina, remember the rest of the names, but that's something another thing that happened, I don't love it, but it is what it is. Is that fintech is still the king in the region. This means volume of investment, volume, number of transactions, and number of companies working on fintech. When you look at the data, companies like Clara, Clark, Jeeps, all of them are credit cards or cards. For companies, maybe for people, but all of them are credit cards. So I wish this 2026, when we have this conversation one year from now, Maybe we see something like energy, like climatic, like, something different from fintech. In this case, credit cards for companies or people. Because we have way more on that. What about what about, like, the picks in Brazil or the in Colombia, like, a peer to peer Like, I I have a house in Mexico. I can't Venmo my cousin $5. I have to go through the spay thing and do a bank to bank transfer. Like, is that ever gonna come to Mexico, and why isn't that industry blowing up? Yeah. I mean, in Mexico, we already had something, like, just for for Mexico. And it didn't work. It didn't work. I don't know why. So I guess it's the same, with the rest of the region. We'll right now, we have some interesting companies working on cross border payments reels, based on crypto, and a lot of well, not not a lot of, but some interesting things happening there, but yeah. Why? I don't know. But, hopefully, that's a new of fintech that is more interesting than just credit cards. I know that, for example, in Peru, when you don't say I going to save you money, you say I'm going to which is the name of the company, and they convert that into a verb. I want to voy a yapearte para mandártelo PayPal you. I'll Venmo you. Yeah. Exactly. So yeah, I don't know if I answer the question or just, like, What do you see in terms of AI in Latinoamérica? Well, we are not creating AI. We are, you know, using what? Gemini and Tropic OpenAI and maybe other big companies are building. Which in my opinion, that's not bad. Because, for example, Jonathan know this company, Bad Tech. They are working with Google, and they are doing pretty interesting stuff because they have to fine tune their model. They have to, you know, find out how to use this technology without modifying hardware. So even though they are not building AI from scratch, they are doing something that is part of their secret sauce. That's happening. I don't like the agent's boom because when you have so many options, it's highly complicated to understand or know. Who's better and why. So I get well, in my opinion, the industry's that are trying or will maybe implement something easier or faster. Maybe fintech everything related to cost success. For example, voice agents to Ah. ¿Cómo le llamas when you have a bunch of people answer the phone just to? Calls them. No. Like, call centers. We already have interesting companies there, and corporates are adopting that I will say, faster than maybe other type of technology. So what else? I know if if banks are going to adapt AI that fast, but those are kind of interesting type of companies that I have seen. So yeah. Makes sense. Can you talk about tech week? Because you actually organized one of the largest events in Mexico, tech week. Like, what is that like? And what do people get out of it? Yeah. Basically, first tech week from LATAM was Mexico tech week, like, four years ago. I didn't attend that one. But already had the opportunity to be in Mexico Tech Week. We organized this event. EF Fest last year. And Colombia Tech Week, And Short, in Mexico, particularly in Mexico well, street three weeks ago, we have Mexico fintech week. Mexico fin... Yeah. Mexico fintech week, which is the first fintech week in Mexico. Previously, they had just fintech festival, which was two days event, and that was it. But this year, they have the whole week for for that, and it was great. We had great people coming from The US, from the rest of LATAM, of course, Mexico, Most of the unicorns in LatAm are are fintech, so it was interesting. So I guess that it's interesting for someone to travel from to Colombia, from Mexico to Chile, from Centroamérica to Mexico City. And in one week, meet certain amount of people with different types of profiles, not only people from Mexico, but from Brazil, Colombia, Chile, Argentina. So it works. Governments, for example, in Colombia, they kind of partner with the chamber of Bogotal because they already have their own event, GoFest. So they kind of combined the date to host Colombia Tech Week during the days of Goldfest in Bogota. So that's that's interesting. In Mexico, we don't have a main event an an agnostic main event, as Colombia as Guatemala have. We have a huge event in another one in and that's it. So Mexico Tech Week has become for Mexico this main event where everyone is is attending. So we we are still, like, figuring out what's going to be the model for each country. For example, we have yesterday, we have a call with Mexico Tech Week. This year. Please don't share this with everyone because this is not public yet, but then we'll have what they call founder house, busy house, don't know what's the third one, but that's gonna be a third one, house something. And maybe an AI house But in Colombia, they have a festival on the rest of the week, and they also have previous days in Medellin, but it part of the Colombia tech week. And then you move after you went to Bogota, you can go to Barranquilla, because it's just for fintech. On May, they will have Venezuela Tech Week, and it's not going to be decentralized. It's going to be centralized because it's a their source edition ecosystem is not huge. So so short answer, we are still discovering the way for the way type of activities for each country. But it's a great way to discover and connect with ecosystem. We just won't travel if you travel you can have a lot of value from one week in one week. Excellent. Wanna be respectful of everybody's time. Anybody have a last question? Mark, Rodrigo, Jeffrey, Nate? I'll just thank you, and would love to circle back at some point, but really grateful for your time here expert in this, and we're, we're learning. Thank you. Thank you, Israel. Gracias, Irma. Thank you. Buen abrazo. Ok. Thanks. Chao.