Meeting Title: Venture ecosystem funding strategy with Dave McClure
Date: Mar 16


Transcript:
 
Them: No. If you're certain No. If you shared me with me that Otter thing, What am I supposed to do with that? Because it tries to join all my calls, so I just keep kicking it out. What it did you want me to do that, or does that sound automatic? I understand. Cool. Did that make sense, otter.ai?  
Me: I never used it out there. I received I think I received Vigo invite, but I I never used it.  
Them: Oh, interesting. Oh, interesting. So I got an invite from you. This is Otter doing it  
Me: I'm sorry. No.  
Them: creative marketing. She actually received from Sorry. Not not. I I actually received an invite from you. I I haven't seen  
Me: No. Sorry. I will delete it.  
Them: I Interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I will I will delete it too. Because I was like, I trust whatever not sent to me, so I was gonna go for it. But I I don't I don't like it because it just shows everybody that it's there.  
Me: No.  
Them: Okay. I'm gonna admit Dave. Here he comes. Hello, sir. Mister McClure. How's it going? How's the hand? You know, I did I didn't take sub drug, I took sub drug that I wasn't supposed to, so they delayed me a week. So Ah. Next Friday, not today. No. Not last Friday. I'm I'm glad you're well, sir. Hey, man. Thank you so much for being willing to take another meeting. We wanted to do a little bit of a deep dive on kind of your idea of engineering venture ecosystem. I I think it was freaking brilliant. One of the best in terms of public policy that I've I've seen come across in the ecosystem And so We'll see. It's but Even a blind finds that not every now and then. Right? Exactly. But You know, some ideas I had with a lot of cloud helping me make them look pretty. If could you kinda walk me through it? Pretend and it won't be too hard, that I don't know anything about this space. And pretend I'm a development banker Could you explain to me, like, I'm five kind of, like, step one and then step two and then step three? Sure. Well because I think we're willing to spend some hours trying to sell it to the development bank, but I think it would really help us to to get our mind around it. And then what helps you in terms of this. I mean, you want your name attached to it. Obviously, it's your idea. That's good. I mean, it's just early concepts. You know, the the basic pillars are, you know, the fund to fund stuff is not necessarily new that was, you know, Israel and Gosma and other countries have done that as well. The Saudis have done that probably ten years back Actually, the the guy who's been running the Saudi fund of funds was the guy who took my class in Stanford about ten years ago. Oh, And so 've done I think now he's done two $750,000,000 fund to funds that deployed into about 40 or 50 smaller VC funds, maybe 50 or 100,000,000 in size. That started happening maybe I'm guessing, seven or eight years ago. So some of them some of them might now be, old enough to get to some secondary level maturity. That was the SVC program. I think there was another one run by a different guy, and I'm forgetting his name. Jada, I think, j a d a. J a d a. I'm seeing that. Is was that the fund of funds? Was gonna ask you. There are two. There were two. SBC, Saudi Venture Capital, company is run by what's his name? Doctor, forget forgetting guy's name. So it's a starts on an end. But Yeah. I just saw it. Motil or something. I don't think that's it, but anyway, sorry I'm getting C now here. But Oh, it's okay. What do do you under And then the Jada guy is that Jada is a different vehicle. But same sort of general concept. And Do you work with e... Exab at all? The Saudi or or Misa, the ministry, or Exhub? I I haven't been working in the Saudis for a while formally, although five hundred has a pretty big operation. Over there. Sunabul was firm that was the anchor for a lot of the five hundred stuff. But, but, anyway, the reason I just bring these up is both of them charter fund of funds, Let me just see if see if I can find this guy's info real quick. I guess Honey is on the board, but I think I thought it was somebody else. There's a woman named Rasha Al Sagar who's head of the VC at Jetta Fund of Funds, but there was another guy that was I think, running it originally. But they've both deployed quite a bit of money. Over over 1,000,000,000, I think, each. Or at least close to 1,000,000,000. So that basic concept, think, is fairly straightforward. The thing that was somewhat unique about the the Yozma example was the initial capital was bought out by private sources after maybe five to ten years. I'm not quite sure I remember all the history there. Do you know do you know how they actually structured the buyout they just buy it out at, like, a 7% interest rate? Or Again, I'm not sure. I mean, that's the same model that The US has done with the SPIC program for, know, decades. Okay. So if you're familiar with The US I think it was originally called SSBIC. I don't know what it's called lately. But that's been operating for I don't know, I wanna say forty years. Mhmm. They they had a different model where you had to raise was, like, a minimum of 10,000,000 privately, and then they would match three to one you can buy it back at a 7% interest rate. Singapore did something similar to that. Where I think it was even a little bit more leverage. I think it was four or five to one, and you could buy it back at a modest interest rate So that that model was kinda straightforward where they were the the government was basically just trying to recover its cost of capital. Against against the modest interest rate. And so for PCs that actually made money, that was a great deal. Maybe some of them didn't make money, so I don't know if they would pull the trigger on the buyout if they didn't make money. But that concept was somewhat straightforward. I I wasn't paying attention when the when the Israelis did that. I think that was, early two thousands. Something around there. But all I'm saying is, like, the concepts there are not you know, that new, somewhat well accepted. And the idea is that rather than trying to, you know, invest in companies' direct government provides capital for BCs, and eventually that government capital gets bought out or pulled out. And then the VC ecosystem is is working, on its own. And and if you look at the history of US VC, that was actually how things got started back in the sixties. Tim Draper's dad was one of the people that started Sutter Hill that way. Think even Tim himself also did something when they were first starting DHA. Pretty pretty sure I remember him saying that. Yep. So that's been around for quite a long time. That that doesn't really solve the liquidity issue. That just solves the getting the the, you know, system started. There's been various tax incentives. So the third part of the pillar, the tax incentive stuff, I'm I'm not really an expert on that. I was just, like, listing different, you know, places that have done different tax incentives. And I think The UK and Singapore and The US through the QSBS program have all had different strategies there. You know, varying levels of success, But either by, you know, allowing people to deduct losses investments that they make or to not tax gains. They come back And I I don't think the QSBS program has any recycling components to it, but I would think that would make more sense. Not sure if one of the other programs did. So you know, like The US does for mortgages, your your primary any gains you have in the, sale of your primary residence are, postponed if you reinvest that capital within eighteen months. So that's that's a concept that could be applied to venture investing if you're trying to keep the capital in the system. And then the slight innovation that I guess I was trying to propose was a way to use the primary round market or the primary market as a price anchor for a secondary, floor that the government provides. And so I'll explain that very briefly in that, you know, a simple way the government could provide a secondary market backstop is to let the primary market set the price, So institutional VCs who do series a, b, and or whatever levels you wanna allow. And then the government to buy back equity at some discount to that primary, round price. And let's just say that's maybe a 20% discount for preferred and a 50% discount for, common. And that probably should be honored within a certain window of time, maybe up to six months, maybe, up to twelve months, but that's probably getting a little bit too generous. You don't wanna allow a stale price in the market to be reclaimed if the company starts going south. But let's say that primary round primary round price is good for at least three to six months, maybe up to twelve months, and you would allow earlier investors in the company and possibly employees of the company to sell some of their shares. At a discount to that primary round price. So the government is not setting price, but the government is using the primaries primary market's price as an anchor and then buying at a discount to that. And they would buy up to some percentage of the primary round that's happening, but probably not all the way to the size of that primary round. Again, that's just to guarantee that people aren't doing funny things. You probably want some stipulations there that the primary end price is not being set by corporate VCs or strategics. So they should they should be, you know, financial investors are in it for pure returns. So Microsoft or Nvidia's price for a company that's using some of their products is maybe not the same price that a traditional VC would set. In that market if they did not have products or services that were being bought by the same company that they're funding. Makes sense. And then what I was trying to figure out was a similar mechanism at the fund level to allow buyouts at the fund level That's actually in the document, but I would just say right now, there's some problems with that because while you can sort of let the primary round price for a company be set by the market, and have a window where it's honored The valuation for a fund is comprised of multiple assets that have different time horizons And so if you're looking at, hey. Here's where the GP is valuing the fund position. That's a combination of different underlying companies and dates. And those will necessarily not be the same date. And so of those valuations will be stale. And so up to you whether you wanna say, hey. I believe that GP's valuation on the books has a price to buy at. Maybe at a 50% discount, that's not crazy, but as we've seen post '22, even a 50% discount against some BC funds marked prices is not a great price. And I'm I'm the perfect proof of that because we're buying positions sometimes that deeper discounts than 50%. So so not saying that you couldn't do it. It's just a more complex issue when you're dealing with a of assets that have different, price times. But but same ideal concept would be that you'd use the private funds, you know, marks as an anchor price and then, you know, buy at a discount to that. So I'm not saying you couldn't do it. It's just a harder problem to solve because you you know, that price is a mix of different prices at different times. One of the one of the thoughts that Cath is actually going through is they've wondered if they should do this stuff internally or they should have governments do it or if they should actually kind of outsource this to kind of, like, a dedicated fund manager that actually has experience. Outsourcing it to somebody in the private market makes more sense. Yep. But the one component that I do think is pretty important that I had had thrown in there was that there's a transparency requirement by the companies and funds order to participate in the program. That might be hard to sell. To the to the companies and the funds. Because they're not necessarily used to doing that. And I don't know if, you know, the funds would probably be okay with doing some level disclosure in exchange for supplemental liquidity options. Companies may or may not think that way. Because I know Why not? Customs or because they're trying to hide something? Or paperwork at the time? CEOs just want their numbers to be private, they probably think that they don't need to be transparent in order to raise money. And they probably don't care about liquidity at least in the beginning. So unless they're forward thinkers and really or unless their investors are pressuring them to participate, Like, theoretically, the VCs who invest in them might say, hey. We'd like you to be transparent with your numbers so that we can participate in this government mandated program. That only provides liquidity if you provide transparency. But they may say, hey. We don't care about that. We're just gonna play the way that everybody else does and keep our numbers private because that's a you know, a business advantage for us. And we'll we'll have to, you know, forego the potential liquidity down the road. So one one thought is I'm I'm I'm giving you the reasons why my strategy might not work is as well as giving you the Yeah. No. No. But it it's really compelling. I mean, I'd I'd love to try to sell this to the you know, at least conceptually at a at a starting point. But one question for you, like, so the idea of what we can get Cath in who doesn't need to make a ton of money, they wanna facilitate things to happen. They could probably twist the arms of pension funds potentially to get them into something, you know, because cap is in there and because they sort of made it big whatever. Then maybe get the governments in a little bit, a little bit of skin in the game for different reasons. With some sort of, you know, amount. Starts to sound really complex, like, too complicated. Like, a lot of financial yet. Is there some sort of point where know, stop running complex models that are all interacting with each other is getting too messy. Like, let's let we're out. Like, who who do we lose with the complexity, or is is the complexity you know, why CAF's contribution can be valuable? Like, yes. It's complex. We're gonna spend the money to, like, figure out the complexity and get all the right across this sort of model. And and then you got everyone else is gonna benefit from that over time. Like, yeah. Well, a a very simple and straightforward way is to run the fund of funds model, but just first private secondary funds. And so you don't have to have a mechanism where the government does that buyback directly that's anchored around, you know, primary market price. You could just say, hey. We're just gonna be a fund of funds. For secondary funds, and we'll let them have their own rules. And, you know, maybe they'll provide liquidity to the market. Maybe they won't. The difference there is then you're, you know, you're relying on their business strategies and models to provide liquidity only to companies or funds that make sense to them. And that might be fine, but it might not address the rest of the market that you're trying to get some liquidity towards. And But second question is how how much of this varies across country context? So we're looking at 26 countries, let's say, take 20 countries Is this something you can just say, we're going all across the board and the dynamics of the model are gonna work in every country, or we have to do all the research and maybe like, sort of short tweaks per country by country? Well, some put in some company countries don't have a difference between preferred and common. So that's that's maybe an issue. Any of them don't have you know, well established standards for employee equity at all. That's been happening over the last ten to twenty years, but a lot of times employee equity and start up companies hasn't been a common thing. No pun intended. Outside The US and maybe, you know, some countries in Western Europe. As as Jonathan knows, at least in Latin America, there's not a lot of, you know, companies that have been giving employees stock options up until maybe the last ten years. Okay. And, is that But generally speaking, you know, people want liquidity and, you know, that's not a issue that differs country by country. It's just the, you know, the the legal structures might be different in country to country. But, generally, people invest money and what returns. And, usually, the returns take longer than they'd hope. And so having a secondary market that's active at some stage prior to an actual organic exit via IPO or acquisition is useful. In The US, we now have an active secondary market that's as sizable as the amount of capital for IPOs and M and As. That's a fairly recent phenomenon that those are three equal size you know, sort of exit paths in most other parts of the world. You know, IPOs tend to be dramatically larger. And M and A is more limited, and secondary market liquidity is hardly existent at all. Or dramatically smaller. How would you not the the interesting of just having a fund to fund strategy, but actually saying, we're explicitly gonna look for secondary fund to funds in this market. Part of our mandate as well in this study is to make regulatory recommendations for these small countries. I mean, to look at the regulatory thing. So you would suggest the differences between common and preferred treatment of employee stock options, that those would be important. Or are is the Cayman sandwich kind of enough and has that actually created a way to ignore kind of small country regulations? I I think you're probably seeing that more and more countries are now using, you know, US standards for documents, but there's still you know, again, I'm not the expert, but as I understand it, there's you know, three primary schools of legal heritage that's The US system, The UK system, and the French system. And I think the French system is really only popular mostly in African countries. So it's mostly US or UK law. And these days, it's mostly US law. And these days, I would say a lot of people incorporate in The US, or they incorporate it a few geographies that know, adhere to either The US or The UK standards. And so in in a lot of, Southeast Asia, that's now Singapore or Mauritius. You know? In in Japan, it's Japan. In Korea, it's Korea, but across other places, I don't know. It varies. I I haven't done this research in a while. I used to know it a lot better ten years ago. But a lot of a lot of people are using, you know, US based safe and US based entities even if they're not in The US these days. I know that EU recently started saying we need to get our shit in order. We need to actually create kind of a unified European EUC corp with EU employee stock options and but there's been some drama around that. That happened, like, eight weeks ago. Okay. I'm I'm certainly not up to speed on all of that, lately. If you wanted to ignore the employee liquidity side, just focus on the investor liquidity side. Would say that's not a terrible idea, but, you know, if if you do look at Silicon Valley, a lot of the reason that companies get started here is because of employee liquidity and angel investing behavior that happens from employees. Which, you know, I'm I'm an example of that. I I made money in the PayPal IPOs, twenty five years ago. I started making angel investments because of the people I knew at PayPal were doing that too, but it was based on the PayPal IPO and my stock options. And so what are what are the big differences and the reason why there's a lot more activity in the Valley is it's not just professional investors making investments It's employees and small angels that are also helping. Make those investments. And that's now started to happen in a few other places. Can I double click on that? Mean, just, like, I think one of the themes is, like, you know, small countries, like, they're never gonna be Silicon Valley. Like, they got nothing. They got no market. They got no blah blah. And, like, if we just create a couple of, you know, tech pro billionaires, they're just gonna move all their capital outside and, like, you make three dudes super rich. Like, how what really, you know, contribution to that are you doing? Think what you're saying, and we sort of we wrote a quick paper on this a few weeks ago. It's like, that, you know, exits in the geography are really meaningful because there's a long history with data that the people that make money in that geography don't just move to Miami and buy a Ferrari. Like that too. They'll, do some stuff in their country and reinvest in their own ecosystem. So as daunting as it might be, like, we're never gonna be Silicon Valley. We're just Guatemala. Like, screw it. Like, let's just move to Silicon Valley, Estonia has a million people, but Estonia has been very successful because of Skype and later because of other things. The Nordics have been very successful with, you maybe less than 25,000,000 people across the five or six major Nordic countries. And there have been huge exits there in gaming and telecom and other areas. So, like, it's not just Silicon Valley. I mean, Silicon Valley is the largest ecosystem by far, but there's plenty of examples of smaller ecosystems with, you know, decent size exits that then spawned a whole you know, mafia of angels that came out of that. Skype is a really good So you're saying it's worth the it's worth the it's worth the sweat equity. It's worth the time to try to develop your own ecosystem. But on the part of the government, on the part of the cap, on the part of the investors who are I I'm saying it's particularly important to make sure that employee equity is also part of that system. Because a lot of the Skype employees who made money became DCs. And it wasn't just the professional investors in Skype who then, you know, In fact, I would say kind of the opposite. It was explicitly the employees and operators that came out of those companies who made money and then became angels part time and then became full time VCs. And so the Yeah. Oh, no. Totally. That's really persuasive. Like, that that's why we're investing in the ecosystem. Not just because they're smaller and poorer and, like, farther behind, but, like, because they need to have their own ecosystem so that when there's a success in that ecosystem that those benefits I mean, we don't have to look very far. Right? Mercado Libre is that example. Kachak came out of Mercado Libre, and probably a lot of other folks that I don't remember came out of that. I'm sure there's plenty of other examples of know, now there's people coming out of Newbank that are also starting companies. So choose your, you know, medium sized unicorn of note in any emerging market. Wait five to ten years, and that group of x employees that made money will probably be starting investing in their local e ecosystems again. And it's not it's not that the tech bros that become oligarch that end up going to Miami and buying the Ferrari. It's it's the employee stock options, make sure that you have dozens or hundreds of relatively much wealth people that then end up saying, hey. I wanna do that too. I can do this myself, and I wanna go start another company or I wanna invest in a bunch of other companies and or both. Lots of little beds. That's, yeah, that's very persuasive. Yeah. Okay. Do you have a connection at Spectra that we can actually talk to, Dave? Because we're starting with lots of fun stuff. Down there. Two years ago, three years ago. I don't remember, but I I know if I remember Hold on one second. Let me see. Nope. It's not in Saudi Arabia. Let's see. Brazil. I can connect through Menashees or Kazakh as well. I'm sure that they're connected with them. Let's see. Spectra investments. Who do I know there? I don't know that I, am directly connected with any of these folks. I know we met a few of them. But it was probably two or three years back. I'm not quite sure. I remember when we were down there, but Okay. Let me just see if I can see if there's anybody in my email. Probably July '24 was when I was down there. Yeah. I don't don't remember who we met with. It might take a little bit. Karen has some connections with folks there too. Okay. I'll I'll ask her. I can ask Menaches or Canary or one of those guys. The folks that we did the Motu deal with, I'm sure know them. I don't know. Telavera Capital because they helped us with the trip. Okay. Was that? Have I guess it was 2023, so it was almost three years ago. Super helpful, Dave. Really appreciate jumping on again. Sure. You bet. Again, I You know? A long time. The challenge is, you know, ecosystems take ten, fifteen, twenty years to build governments usually empower for four to five. So sometimes hard to get the timing on that. And that's where the calf comes in. Right? Like, that that's the whole point of the calf. Like, they'll try to go into a you know, spend two year like, we've got five years of new president, right, of the calf. So he he could spend two years building this complex thing, spend a year, like, getting governments, like, to, like, lock in but then they're stuck for, you know, ten years or twenty years. They it's stuck in a good way. Meaning, they don't have to think about it. They don't have to relitigate it in the next political term. That's, like no. Literally, that's, like, the purpose of the institutionality of of of these banks. So if they can kinda broker the deal, it allows it all the governments to take it off their political agenda for ten or fifteen years because they've already sort of signed on the dotted line. Now, of course, they could kinda crazy things, but in general, like, it's done. Most people don't have the time or you know, muscle to, like, fight with this anyways. It's too complicated. People are like, he's got the money. He's gotta figure it out. He had to walk away, like, the small country government. So mean, I think there's a case to be made that if if they can build it, like, it could provide that ten twenty year ecosystemic, like, you know, fall off, and no one has to do anything. You know? Including the US government and every other like, they got like, we're trying to take that negative incentive over the political time side, you know, cycle out out of the game. Right. Well, I think you you want people to believe that there's benefits, but you don't want to have to have to worry about the downside of any kind of, you know, political I know, or something like that? Yep. I I do think wherever you can lean on, hey. This has worked in these other countries and particularly where it's not just The US where that's worked. Then it's more helpful. So, you know, the examples of Israel and Saudi and Singapore and a few cases, UK and Europe and Nordics are are useful. Yeah. Now the the Estonia example is actually really compelling, and I think Lithalania has a couple of unicorns as well. I don't know they've actually exited yet, but they've been doing a lot of really decent work in that space. But I wanna be respectful of your time, sir. Send sec. Thank you once again. It's so good. Feel free to use anything you want there and, you know, concepts by Dave, but, you know, I I hesitate to say I wanna take too much responsibility or or prestige because they're just concepts, at least. We'll we'll just call it Dave says. I I do think the secondary fund of fund is a pretty straightforward idea that's not that different from a normal fund of funds. Yep. So that that one's probably the simplest to do without a whole bunch of government, involvement. Yep. Love it. Alright. Thanks so much, Dan. You bet, guys. Good luck, Steven. Bye.